
Date: Wed, 26 May 2010 10:18:49 -0400
From: <Security_Alert@....com>
To: <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Cc: <Security_Alert@....com>
Subject: ESA-2010-007: EMC Avamar Denial Of Service Vulnerability

ESA-2010-007: EMC Avamar Denial Of Service Vulnerability

Identifier: ESA-2010-007
CVE Identifier: CVE-2010-1919

Severity Rating:  CVSS v2 Base Score: 7.1 (AV:N/AC:M/Au:N/C:N/I:N/A:C)

Affected products:
EMC Avamar version 4.1.x
EMC Avamar version 5.0

Please note EMC Avamar 5.0 SP1 is not affected by this issue.

Vulnerability Summary:
A vulnerability exists in EMC Avamar which can be exploited by an unauthenticated remote user to cause denial of service.

Vulnerability Details:
The vulnerability in EMC Avamar may allow a remote unauthenticated user to send a specially-crafted message over TCP to hang gsan service causing denial of service condition on the Avamar grid. As a result, the affected  grid would require a system reboot to clear the problem.

Problem Resolution:

For Avamar 4.1.x, a patch (#18975) is available to correct this issue.  Please contact EMC Customer Service to have this patch installed.

For Avamar 5.0, the fix is available in 5.0 SP1.  Please contact EMC Customer Service to request an upgrade to 5.0 SP1 or higher.

EMC strongly recommends all customers apply security patches, which contain the resolution to this issue, at the earliest opportunity.

For explanation of Severity Ratings, refer to EMC Knowledgebase solution emc218831.

Read and utilize the information in this product alert to assist in avoiding any situation that might arise from the problems described herein. If you have any questions regarding this product alert, contact EMC Software Technical Support at 1-877-534-2867.

Also, refer to the release supplements for each product for information regarding the new Software packages, build information, and fixes that may be included in addition to the security vulnerability fix at Powerlink. From the Powerlink home page menu bar, select Home > Support > Technical Documentation and Advisories > Software ~ A-B ~ Documentation > Avamar

EMC Corporation distributes EMC Security Advisories in order to bring to the attention of users of the affected EMC products important security information. EMC recommends all users determine the applicability of this information to their individual situations and take appropriate action. The information set forth herein is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind. EMC disclaims all warranties, either express or implied, including the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title and non-infringement. In no event shall EMC or its suppliers be liable for any damages whatsoever including direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, loss of business profits or special damages, even if EMC or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damages. Some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of liability for consequential or incidental damages so the foregoing limitation may not apply.


EMC Product Security Response Center

Security_Alert@....com

http://www.emc.com/contact-us/contact/product-security-response-center.htm

