
Date: Wed, 25 Oct 2006 16:34:56 -0400
From: iDefense Labs <labs-no-reply@...fense.com>
To: idlabs-advisories@...fense.com, vulnwatch@...nwatch.org,
	full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: iDefense Security Advisory 10.25.06: AOL YGPPDownload AddPictureNoAlbum
 ActiveX Control Heap Corruption Vulnerability

AOL YGPPDownload AddPictureNoAlbum ActiveX Control Heap Corruption
Vulnerability

iDefense Security Advisory 10.25.06
http://www.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/
Oct 25, 2006

I. BACKGROUND

America Online 9.0 Security Edition builds upon Internet Explorer
technology to offer its users enhanced security and usability features.
More information can be found on the vendors site at the following url:

  http://www.corp.aol.com/products/brands_aol2.shtml

II. DESCRIPTION

America Online 9.0 Security Edition ships with an ActiveX control which
is marked as safe for scripting and contains a buffer overflow
vulnerability which allows for the arbitrary execution of code.

When AOL 9.0 is installed, it registers the following ActiveX control on
the system:

ProgId: AOL.PicDownloadCtrl.1
ClassId: D670D0B3-05AB-4115-9F87-D983EF1AC747
File: YGPPicDownload.dll

This control is registered as safe for scripting in IE and contains a
buffer overflow in its AddPictureNoAlbum() method.

III. ANALYSIS

Exploitation of this vulnerability is trivial and allows for arbitrary
execution of code as the currently logged in user. Users would need to
be convinced to go to a malicious web site in order to be exploited.

IV. DETECTION

This vulnerability has been verified in AOL Security Edition 9.0 with
downloader plugin version 9.2.3.0

V. WORKAROUND

Disabling Active Scripting or unregistering the vulnerable control can
prevent exploitation.

VI. VENDOR RESPONSE

"All AOL software versions are affected by this issue.

Solutions

1. Users of AOL 9.0 or AOL 9.0 Security Edition are recommended to log
in to the AOL service and a fix will be seamlessly applied to their
system.

2. Users using versions of AOL that are older than 9.0 are strongly
recommended to upgrade to the latest version of AOL 9.0 Security
Edition."

VII. CVE INFORMATION

A Mitre Corp. Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) number has not
been assigned yet.

VIII. DISCLOSURE TIMELINE

10/12/2006  Initial vendor notification
10/23/2006  Initial vendor response
10/25/2006  Coordinated public disclosure

IX. CREDIT

The vulnerability was discovered by Dennis Rand - CIRT.DK

Get paid for vulnerability research
http://www.idefense.com/methodology/vulnerability/vcp.php

Free tools, research and upcoming events
http://labs.idefense.com/

X. LEGAL NOTICES

Copyright © 2006 iDefense, Inc.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert
electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express
written consent of iDefense. If you wish to reprint the whole or any
part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically, please
email customerservice@...fense.com for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate
at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use
of the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS condition.
There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct, indirect,
or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or reliance on,
this information.



