
Date: Thu, 29 Apr 2010 23:47:10 -0700
From: Dragos Ruiu <dr@....net>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: EUSecWest Amsterdam 2010 Call For Papers (short deadline May 5 - conf June 16/17)

EUSecWest CALL FOR PAPERS

   AMSTERDAM, Nederland -- The sixth annual EUSecWest applied technical
   security conference - where the eminent figures in the international
   security industry will get together share best practices and technology
   - will be held in downtown Amsterdam at the the Melkweg Multimedia
   Center near Leidseplein on June 16/17, 2010. The most significant new
   discoveries about computer network hack attacks and defenses,
   commercial security solutions, and pragmatic real world security
   experience will be presented in a series of informative tutorials.

   The EUSecWest meeting provides international researchers a relaxed,
   comfortable environment to learn from informative tutorials on key
   developments in security technology, and collaborate and socialize with
   their peers in one of the world's most scenic cities - a short walk
   away from several large hotels and the Leidseplein entertainment and
   shopping district, conveniently close to many famous museums,
   convenient transport, Vondel Park, and a plentitude of restaurants and
   bars.

   This year the first evening party will feature a special musical guest
   star. We will announce the performer(s) shortly.

   The EUSecWest conference will also feature the availability of the
   Security Masters Dojo expert network security sensei instructors, and
   their advanced, and intermediate, hands-on training courses - featuring
   small class sizes and practical application excercises to maximize
   information transfer.

   We would like to announce the opportunity to submit papers, and/or
   lightning talk proposals for selection by the CanSecWest technical
   review committee. This year we will be doing one hour talks, and some
   shorter talk sessions.

   Please make your paper proposal submissions before May 5th, 2010.

   Some invited papers have been confirmed, but a limited number of
   speaking slots are still available. The conference is responsible for
   travel and accommodations for the speakers. If you have a proposal for a
   tutorial session then please make your submission by mailing a plain
   text version of the information along with any other supporting
   material or formats to synopsis of the material and your biography,
   papers and, speaking background to "secwest10 [at] eusecwest.com" Only
   slides will be needed for the June paper deadline, full text does not
   have to be submitted - but will be accepted if available. This year we
--   will be opening up the presentation guidelines to include talks not in
   English (particularly Chinese) which we will offer to translate for the
   speaker if they are not a native English speaker.

   The EUSecWest 2010 conference consists of tutorials on technical
   details about current issues, innovative techniques and best practices
   in the information security realm. The audiences are a multi-national
   mix of professionals involved on a daily basis with security work:
   security product vendors, programmers, security officers, and network
   administrators. We give preference to technical details and new
   education for a technical audience.

   The conference itself is a single track series of presentations in a
   lecture theater environment. The presentations offer speakers the
   opportunity to showcase on-going research and collaborate with peers
   while educating and highlighting advancements in security products and
   techniques. The focus is on innovation, tutorials, and education
   instead of product pitches. Some commercial content is tolerated, but
   it needs to be backed up by a technical presenter - either giving a
   valuable tutorial and best practices instruction or detailing
   significant new technology in the products.

   Paper proposals should consist of the following information:
    1. Presenter, and geographical location (country of origin/passport)
       and contact info (e-mail, postal address, phone, fax).
    2. Employer and/or affiliations.
    3. Brief biography, list of publications and papers.
    4. Any significant presentation and educational experience/background.
    5. Topic synopsis, Proposed paper title, and a one paragraph
       description.
    6. Reason why this material is innovative or significant or an
       important tutorial.
    7. Optionally, any samples of prepared material or outlines ready.
    8. Will you have full text available or only slides?
    9. Language of preference for submission.
   10. Please list any other publications or conferences where this
       material has been or will be published/submitted.

   IMPORTANT:Please include the plain text version of this information in
   your email as well as any file, pdf, sxw, ppt, or html attachments.

   Please forward the above information to "secwest10 [at] eusecwest.com"
   to be considered for placement on the speaker roster, or have your
   lightning talk scheduled. If you contact anyone else at our
   organization please ensure you also forward a copy of the submission
   info to the submission address else it may be omitted from the review
   process.



Venue

   The conference will be held at the Melkweg club at Lijnbaansgracht
   234a, 1017 PH Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

   By foot/bicycle

   The Melkweg is located practically on the Leidseplein square, behind
   the Stadsschouwburg on the right. Parking places for bicycles around
   Leidseplein are limited. Any bicycles not parked inside the stands will
   be removed. Locker (a secure bicycle parking facility located to the
   right of the Paradiso on Weteringschans) is the best place to park your
   bicycle in safety. It is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and only
   costs 0.50 Euro per day (and also offers a tire repair service).

   By public transport

   Leidseplein can be reached via trams 1, 2 and 5 (about 10 minutes from
   Amsterdam Central Station) and lines 6, 7 and 10 (about 7 minutes from
   the metro station Weesperplein). The bus routes 170, 171, 172 and the
   late-night busses 72, 73, 74 and 78 also stop at Leidseplein. For more
   travel advice, please visit www.92920v.nl.

Hotel

   The conference hotel block is at the NH Amsterdam Centre,
   Stadhouderskade 7, 1054 ES Amsterdam, Netherlands - 020 6851351 - The
   conference block rate is 130 Euro (plus tax). The number of rooms is
   limited.  There are three large major hotels at this location,
   including the Mariott and Eden American hotel, albeit with higher
   rates. There are also a number of smaller hotels and hostels near the
   venue.

-- 
World Security Pros. Cutting Edge Training, Tools, and Techniques
Amsterdam, Netherlands, June 16/17 2010  http://eusecwest.com
Tokyo, Japan November 10/11 2010  http://pacsec.jp
Vancouver, Canada March 9-11 2011  http://cansecwest.com
pgpkey http://dragos.com/ kyxpgp
