
Date: Wed, 4 Jun 2008 12:54:13 -0500
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-08-034: HP StorageWorks Storage Mirroring Authentication Processing
 Stack Overflow Vulnerability

ZDI-08-034: HP StorageWorks Storage Mirroring Authentication Processing 
Stack Overflow Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-08-034
June 4, 2008

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2008-1661

-- Affected Vendors:
Hewlett-Packard

-- Affected Products:
Hewlett-Packard StorageWorks

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 6051. 
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS, visit:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Hewlett Packard StorageWorks Storage
Mirroring. Authentication is not required to exploit this
vulnerability.

The specific flaw exists in the DoubleTake.exe process bound by default
on TCP ports 1100, 1106 and UDP port 1105. During the handling of an
encoded authentication request, the process copies the user-supplied
login information into a fixed length stack buffer. Sending at least 256
bytes will trigger a stack based buffer overflow due to a vulnerable
processing loop. Exploitation of this issue can result in arbitrary code
execution.

-- Vendor Response:
Hewlett-Packard states:
To resolve this vulnerability download HP StorageWorks Storage Mirroring
software v4.5 Service Pack 2 (SP2) from Double-Take at the following
URL: http://www.doubletake.com/products/double-take/default.aspx

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2007-05-22 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2008-06-04 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by:
    * Titon of BastardLabs

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is
used. TippingPoint does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any
exploit code. Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor,
TippingPoint provides its customers with zero day protection through
its intrusion prevention technology. Explicit details regarding the
specifics of the vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until
an official vendor patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the
altruistic aim of helping to secure a broader user base, TippingPoint
provides this vulnerability information confidentially to security
vendors (including competitors) who have a vulnerability protection or
mitigation product.

Our vulnerability disclosure policy is available online at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/disclosure_policy/

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
