
Date: Tue, 12 Aug 2008 16:43:24 -0500
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-08-049: Microsoft Windows Graphics Rendering Engine PICT Heap
 Corruption

ZDI-08-049: Microsoft Windows Graphics Rendering Engine PICT Heap 
Corruption
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-08-049
August 12, 2008

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2008-3021

-- Affected Vendors:
Microsoft

-- Affected Products:
Microsoft File Format Vulnerability

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 4665. 
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS, visit:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com

-- Vulnerability Details:
A potential vulnerability exists in the Microsoft Office Suite.  The
issue is a result of insufficient bounds checking on the content of PICT
files embedded into documents.  Successful exploitation of this issue
enables an attacker to remotely execute arbitrary code on a target
system.  User interaction would be required, as an attacker would have
to convince the target user to open a malformed file.

One of the filter DLLs for processing image files in Microsoft Office
suffers from a potentially-exploitable memory corruption condition when
processing .PICT images.  An invalid value in the bits_per_pixel field
(offset 0x257) causes heap corruption.  Different values of this field
result in distinctly different types of corruption.  Internally, the
issue was only reproducible when the malformed image was directly
inserted into an Office document by the target user.

-- Vendor Response:
Microsoft has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:

http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/bulletin/MS08-044.mspx

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2006-09-14 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2008-08-12 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by:
    * Damian Put <pucik@...rflow.pl>

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is
used. TippingPoint does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any
exploit code. Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor,
TippingPoint provides its customers with zero day protection through
its intrusion prevention technology. Explicit details regarding the
specifics of the vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until
an official vendor patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the
altruistic aim of helping to secure a broader user base, TippingPoint
provides this vulnerability information confidentially to security
vendors (including competitors) who have a vulnerability protection or
mitigation product.

Our vulnerability disclosure policy is available online at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/disclosure_policy/

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
