
Date: Tue, 12 Aug 2008 19:56:30 -0400
From: iDefense Labs <labs-no-reply@...fense.com>
To: vulnwatch@...nwatch.org, full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk,
	bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: iDefense Security Advisory 08.12.08: Microsoft Office BMP Input Filter
 Heap Overflow Vulnerability

iDefense Security Advisory 08.12.08
http://labs.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/
Aug 12, 2008

I. BACKGROUND

Microsoft Office contains a number of input filters. These input filters
allow transparent conversion from external types into a form that the
Office applications can use. More information on import filters in
Microsoft Office 2002 is available at the following URL.

http://support.microsoft.com/?scid=kb;en-us;290362

II. DESCRIPTION

Remote exploitation of a heap buffer overflow vulnerability in the
"BMPIMP32.FLT" filter module, as distributed with Microsoft Office,
allows attackers to execute arbitrary code.

The vulnerability specifically exists in the handling of Windows Bitmap
(BMP) image files with malformed headers. By specifying a very large
number of colors in the header, it is possible to cause controllable
heap corruption, which can be leveraged to execute arbitrary code.

III. ANALYSIS

Exploitation could allow attackers to execute arbitrary code on the
targeted host under the security context of the current logged in user.
Successful exploitation would require the attacker to entice his or her
victim into opening a specially crafted BMP image with a vulnerable
version of Office.

IV. DETECTION

iDefense confirmed that the "BMPIMP32.FLT" module installed with
Microsoft Office XP SP3, including all patches as of May 24, 2006, is
vulnerable. Other versions may also be vulnerable.

This vulnerability does not affect Microsoft Office 2003 as this filter
is not installed or required.

V. WORKAROUND

This workaround replaces the affected filter with an empty file.
Creating this file prevents Office from offering to reinstall the
affected component.

  1. Close all running applications.
  2. Open the folder "C:\Program Files\Common Files\Microsoft 
Shared\Grphflt".
  3. Rename the file "BMPIMP32.FLT" to "BMPIMP.FLT.disabled".
  4. Create an empty file in this directory with the name 
"BMPIMP32.FLT". (Open Notepad, go to this directory and choose File, 
Save..., type "BMPIMP32.FLT" including the quotes and click Save.

In testing on Windows 2000 with Office XP SP3 installed, this workaround
did not adversely impact functionality. BMP format image files can still
be imported into Word, but the operations that can be performed on them
may be impacted.

VI. VENDOR RESPONSE

Microsoft has officially addressed this vulnerability with Security
Bulletin MS08-044. For more information, consult their bulletin at the
following URL.

http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/bulletin/ms08-044.mspx

VII. CVE INFORMATION

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project has assigned the
name CVE-2008-3020 to this issue. This is a candidate for inclusion in
the CVE list (http://cve.mitre.org/), which standardizes names for
security problems.

VIII. DISCLOSURE TIMELINE

09/11/2006  Initial vendor notification
09/11/2006  Initial vendor response
08/12/2008  Coordinated public disclosure

IX. CREDIT

The discoverer of this vulnerability wishes to remain anonymous.

Get paid for vulnerability research
http://labs.idefense.com/methodology/vulnerability/vcp.php

Free tools, research and upcoming events
http://labs.idefense.com/

X. LEGAL NOTICES

Copyright © 2008 iDefense, Inc.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert
electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express
written consent of iDefense. If you wish to reprint the whole or any
part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically,
please e-mail customerservice@...fense.com for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate
at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use
of the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS condition.
 There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct,
indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or
reliance on, this information.
