
Date: Fri, 09 Nov 2007 16:33:50 -0500
From: iDefense Labs <labs-no-reply@...fense.com>
To: vulnwatch@...nwatch.org, full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk,
	bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: iDefense Security Advisory 11.09.07: AOL AmpX ActiveX Control Multiple
 Buffer Overflow Vulnerabilities

iDefense Security Advisory 11.09.07
http://labs.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/
Nov 09, 2007

I. BACKGROUND

America Online's AmpX is an ActiveX control associated with AOL Radio.
It is typically used for embedding streaming audio content in web
pages. For more information visit the following URL.

http://music.aol.com/radioguide/bb/

II. DESCRIPTION

Remote exploitation of multiple buffer overflow vulnerabilities in AOL's
AmpX ActiveX control could allow attackers to execute arbitrary code
with the credentials of the user visiting a malicious website.

Several methods within the vulnerable ActiveX control (CLSID
B49C4597-8721-4789-9250-315DFBD9F525) were found to be vulnerable to
stack-based buffer overflows. In each case, variable length attacker
supplied data is copied into a fixed-size stack buffer using the
strcpy() function. Since no input validation is performed, it is
possible to corrupt stack memory, resulting in an exploitable
condition.

III. ANALYSIS

Exploitation allows an attacker to execute arbitrary code in the context
of the user viewing a malicious web page. In order to be successful, the
attacker must persuade a user with the vulnerable control installed into
viewing a malicious web page. No further interaction is required.

IV. DETECTION

iDefense has confirmed the existence of this vulnerability in version
2.6.1.11 of America Online's AmpX.dll. Other versions are suspected to
be vulnerable.

V. WORKAROUND

In order to prevent exploitation of this vulnerability, an administrator
can set the kill-bit for the vulnerable control. While this does not fix
the vulnerability, it does prevent the control from being loaded in
Internet Explorer.

VI. VENDOR RESPONSE

"An updated version of AOL Radio with enhanced security features is now
available. AOL recommends that you download and install the update to
get the best and most secure performance from AOL Radio. If you use AIM
or other AOL software, you will automatically receive a prompt to update
AOL Radio and you do not need to download and install this update now.
Otherwise, please download the update from the URL below and
double-click on the file to finish updating AOL Radio:

http://radaol-prod-web-rr.streamops.aol.com/mediaplugin/unagi_patch.exe"

VII. CVE INFORMATION

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project has assigned the
name CVE-2007-5755 to this issue. This is a candidate for inclusion in
the CVE list (http://cve.mitre.org/), which standardizes names for
security problems.

VIII. DISCLOSURE TIMELINE

04/24/2007  Initial vendor notification
04/24/2007  Initial vendor response
11/09/2007  Coordinated public disclosure

IX. CREDIT

The discoverer of this vulnerability wishes to remain anonymous.

Get paid for vulnerability research
http://labs.idefense.com/methodology/vulnerability/vcp.php

Free tools, research and upcoming events
http://labs.idefense.com/

X. LEGAL NOTICES

Copyright © 2007 iDefense, Inc.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert
electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express
written consent of iDefense. If you wish to reprint the whole or any
part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically,
please e-mail customerservice@...fense.com for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate
at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use
of the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS condition.
 There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct,
indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or
reliance on, this information.
