
Date: Fri, 12 Mar 2010 12:24:52 -0500
From: James Heralds <jmheralds@...il.com>
To: oss-security@...ts.openwall.com
Subject: Call for papers: ISP-10, USA, July 2010

It would be highly appreciated if you could share this announcement
with your colleagues, students and individuals whose research is in
information security, cryptography, privacy, and related areas.



Call for papers: ISP-10, USA, July 2010



The 2010 International Conference on Information Security and Privacy
(ISP-10) (website: http://www.PromoteResearch.org ) will be held
during 12-14 of July 2010 in Orlando, FL, USA.  ISP is an important
event in the areas of information security, privacy, cryptography and
related topics.



The conference will be held at the same time and location where
several other major international conferences will be taking place.
The conference will be held as part of 2010 multi-conference
(MULTICONF-10). MULTICONF-10 will be held during July 12-14, 2010 in
Orlando, Florida, USA. The primary goal of MULTICONF is to promote
research and developmental activities in computer science, information
technology, control engineering, and related fields. Another goal is
to promote the dissemination of research to a multidisciplinary
audience and to facilitate communication among researchers,
developers, practitioners in different fields. The following
conferences are planned to be organized as part of MULTICONF-10.



•           International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and
Pattern Recognition (AIPR-10)

•           International Conference on Automation, Robotics and
Control Systems (ARCS-10)

•           International Conference on Bioinformatics, Computational
Biology, Genomics and Chemoinformatics (BCBGC-10)

•           International Conference on Computer Communications and
Networks (CCN-10)

•           International Conference on Enterprise Information Systems
and Web Technologies (EISWT-10)

•           International Conference on High Performance Computing
Systems (HPCS-10)

•           International Conference on Information Security and
Privacy (ISP-10)

•           International Conference on Image and Video Processing and
Computer Vision (IVPCV-10)

•           International Conference on Software Engineering Theory
and Practice (SETP-10)

•           International Conference on Theoretical and Mathematical
Foundations of Computer Science (TMFCS-10)





MULTICONF-10 will be held at Imperial Swan Hotel and Suites.  It is a
full-service resort that puts you in the middle of the fun! Located
1/2 block south of the famed International Drive, the hotel is just
minutes from great entertainment like Walt Disney World® Resort,
Universal Studios and Sea World Orlando. Guests can enjoy free
scheduled transportation to these theme parks, as well as spacious
accommodations, outdoor pools and on-site dining — all situated on 10
tropically landscaped acres. Here, guests can experience a
full-service resort with discount hotel pricing in Orlando.



We invite draft paper submissions. Please see the website
http://www.PromoteResearch.org  for more details.



Sincerely

James Heralds
