
Date: Thu, 2 Apr 2009 22:30:36 +0300
From: k g <kgconference@...il.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Cyber Warfare Conference: Agenda

Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence
Conference on Cyber Warfare
June 17-19, 2009
Tallinn, Estonia
www.ccdcoe.org

Jaak Aaviksoo, Estonian Defence Minister
Opening Remarks

KEYNOTE
The Information Warfare Monitor
Tracking GhostNet: Investigating a Cyber Espionage Network

KEYNOTE
Mikko Hypponen, Chief Research Officer, F-Secure
Evolution of the Threat

KEYNOTE
James Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy
Program, Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS)
Securing Cyberspace for the 44th Presidency

Jose Nazario, PhD., Arbor Networks
Measuring Global Denial of Service Attacks

Felix Leder, Tillmann Werner, Institute of Computer Science IV,
University of Bonn, Germany
Proactive Botnet Countermeasures: An Offensive Approach

Roelof Temmingh, CEO, Paterva
Evaluating the Credibility of a Cyber Threat

Amit Yoran, Chairman and CEO, NetWitness Corporation
Removing the Uncertainty and Doubt (but not the Fear) from Information
Risk Management

Billy Rios and Jeff Carr, Microsoft
Sun Tzu was a Hacker - A Examination of the Tactics and Operations
from a Real World Cyber Attack

Olivier Thonnard, Royal Military Academy, Belgium
Behavioral Analysis of Zombie Armies

Lt Col Forrest Hare, OSD, George Mason School of Public Policy
Borders in Cyberspace: Can Sovereignty Adapt to the Cyber Security Challenge?

Amit Sharma, Defence Research and Development Organization, Ministry
of Defence, Government of India
CYBER WARS: A paradigm shift from Means to End

Michael Ruiz, CTO, Net-Enabled Operations (NEOS), BearingPoint
Cyber Command and Control: A Current Concept for Future Doctrine

Andrew Cutts, Director, Cybersecurity Policy, U.S. Department of
Homeland Security
Cyber Risk from a Homeland Security Perspective

David Sulek and Ned Moran, Booz Allen Hamilton
What Historical Analogies can tell us about the Future of Cybersecurity

Dr Paul Cornish, Chatham House and Dr Rex B. Hughes, Cambridge-MIT Institute
Towards a Global Regime for Cyber Defense

Major Julian Charvat (GBR), COE DAT, Ankara, Turkey
Terrorism and Cyberspace: the use of the Internet by terrorist
organizations and the possibilities of terrorist cyber attacks

Cyrus Farivar, Freelance Technology Journalist
“Web War One”? Really? Media Coverage of Cyberattacks

Andrea Glorioso, European Commission - DG Information Society and Media
New European Policy on Critical Information Infrastructure Protection

Dr. Stuart H. Starr, Senior Research Fellow, Center for Technology and
National Security Policy (CTNSP), National Defense University (NDU)
Towards a (Preliminary) Theory of Cyberpower

Dennis P. Gilbert, Jr., Booz Allen Hamilton
The Information Sphere Domain – Increasing Understanding and Cooperation

Daniel Bilar, University of New Orleans
_nth-order attacks_

Fyodor Pavlyuchenko, charter97.org
Belorussia in the context of European Cyber Security

Gabriel Klein, Research Institute for Communication, Information
Processing, and Ergonomics (FGAN-FKIE)
Enhancing Graph-based Automated DoS Attack Response

L-F Pau, Prof. Mobile business Copenhagen business school, and
Rotterdam school of management
Business and social evaluation of denial of service attacks in view of
scaling economic counter-measures

Luc Beaudoin, Defence Research and Development Canada
Autonomic Computer Network Defence using Reinforcement Learning and Risk States

Martin Luts, ELIKO Competence Centre in Electronics-, Info- and
Communication Technologies
Ontologies and other types of semanticware - assets to protect, or
instruments to use in Cyber Warfare?

Scott Knight, Sylvain Leblanc, Royal Military College of Canada
When Not to Pull the Plug

Scott Borg, Director and Chief Economist, U.S. Cyber Consequences Unit
The Cyber-Defence Revolution

Conference Manager: Kenneth Geers, Scientist, CCD CoE

Questions, sponsorship opportunities, press queries: cwcon . at . ccdcoe.org

Online registration coming soon!

-------
