
Date: Thu, 05 Feb 2009 18:33:40 -0300
From: uCon Security Conference <cfp@...n-conference.org>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com, pen-test@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Speaking line up confirmed! uCon Security Conference 2009 - Recife,
 Brazil

The complete list of speakers of uCon Security Conference 2009 has been
announced.
The organizing committee would like to thank everyone who submitted
their proposals.

The conference will take place three days after the most insane street
carnival in the world in Recife, Brazil, on 28th February 2009 and will
also feature trainings sessions on 26th and 27th.

If you are outside Brazil and plan to attend to uCon, please contact us
if you need any assistance on your travel. Carnival and hacking in a
row, rather unique. Don't miss the chance.

For more information please visit http://www.ucon-conference.org


PS: All training sessions will be delivered in Portuguese.


[--- SPEAKING LINE UP ---]

Speaker: Jayson Street, CISSP (Stratagem One)
Keynote: "Dispelling the myths and discussing the facts of global
cyber-warfare"
Language: English
Track: Information warfare


Speaker: Stephen Ridley (Matasano)
Speech: "Intro to Windows Kernel Security Development"
Language: English
Track: Kernel hacking / reverse engineering / vuln-dev


Speaker: Julio Auto (Independent researcher)
Speech: "Practical (Introduction to) Reverse Engineering"
Language: Portuguese
Track: Reverse engineering


Speaker: Rodrigo Rubira Branco aka BSDaemon (Checkpoint / COSEINC)
Speech: "Advanced Payload Strategies: What is new, what works and what
is hoax?"
Language: Portuguese
Track: Vuln-dev / shellcoding


Speaker: Joseph McCray (Rapid7 / LearnSecurityOnline.com)
Speech: "Advanced SQL Injection"
Language: English
Track: Web hacking


Speaker: Gustavo Monteiro (Independent researcher)
Speech: "Secure log centralization, analysis & security visualization"
Language: Portuguese
Track: Log & event correlation / security visualization


Speaker: David Batanero (Independent researcher)
Speech: "GSM for fun and profit"
Language: English
Track: Telecom security


Speaker: Felipe Andres Manzano (Nimbuzz.com)
Speech: "Exploiting PDF Readers"
Language: English
Track: Vuln-dev / software testing


Speaker: Tiago Assumpcao (zynamics)
Speech: "Ut cognitione visus: ut ipso intellecto - BinNavi 2.0"
Language: Portuguese
Track: Reverse engineering


Speaker: Gustavo Pimentel Bittencourt and Julio Cesar Fort (Digital Trust)
Speech: "From theory to practice - Bringing down the house with extended
DHCP exhaustion attack"
Language: Portuguese
Track: Attack


See you in Brazil!

Sincerely,
Organizing committee, uCon Security Conference
http://www.ucon-conference.org
