
Date: Fri, 2 Sep 2011 19:16:16 +0000
From: ZDI Disclosures <zdi-disclosures@...pingpoint.com>
To: "full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk" <full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk>,
  "bugtraq@...urityfocus.com" <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: ZDI-11-279: (0day) Witness Systems eQuality Unify Remote Code
 Execution Vulnerability

ZDI-11-279: (0day) Witness Systems eQuality Unify Remote Code Execution Vulnerability

http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-11-279

September 2, 2011

-- CVSS:
10, (AV:N/AC:L/Au:N/C:C/I:C/A:C)

-- Affected Vendors:
Nortel
Witness Systems

-- Affected Products:
Nortel Contact Recording and Quality Monitoring
Witness Systems eQuality 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Witness Systems eQuality Suite. This
application is bundled with Nortel Contact Recording and Quality
Monitoring Suite. Authentication is not required to exploit this
vulnerability. 

The flaw exists within the Unify2.exe component which listens by default
on TCP port 6821. When handling a packet type the process trusts a
remaining packet length value provided by the user and blindly copies
user supplied data into a fixed-length buffer on the stack. A remote
attacker can exploit this vulnerability to execute arbitrary code under
the context of the SYSTEM user.

-- Vendor Response:

Nortel states:
Due to the small number of installations using this software the risk of
potential exploitation has been determined to be very low and therefore
this issue will not be addressed. Avaya recommends implementing firewall
rules that restrict access to trusted hosts to mitigate the risk.

Witness Systems:
No response was ever given.

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2011-03-01 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2011-09-02 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by:
    * AbdulAziz Hariri of ThirdEyeTesters

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is
used. TippingPoint does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any
exploit code. Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor,
TippingPoint provides its customers with zero day protection through
its intrusion prevention technology. Explicit details regarding the
specifics of the vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until
an official vendor patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the
altruistic aim of helping to secure a broader user base, TippingPoint
provides this vulnerability information confidentially to security
vendors (including competitors) who have a vulnerability protection or
mitigation product.

Our vulnerability disclosure policy is available online at:
    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/disclosure_policy/

Follow the ZDI on Twitter:
    http://twitter.com/thezdi

