
Date: Tue, 16 May 2017 19:21:24 +0200
From: Solar Designer <solar@...nwall.com>
To: Alistair Crooks <agc@...src.org>
Cc: oss-security@...ts.openwall.com
Subject: Re: NetBSD/pkgsrc membership on distros list

Hi Alistair,

Thank you for the prompt response.

On Tue, May 16, 2017 at 10:04:12AM -0700, Alistair Crooks wrote:
> Yeah, we're here, we are the same as previously, still trying to go
> about our business with maximum effect and minimal fuss, and we're
> listening.
> 
> We haven't contributed anything (much) recently, but we don't really
> go in for massive "me too"s, and had kinda hoped that the "no drama"
> approach would work here. It seems my assumptions were wrong. I will
> attempt to do a better job at posting - sorry about that, mea culpa.

It wasn't just that, and in fact mere "me too"s are discouraged.

Over the last few days, there have been repeated requests to get a
response specifically from NetBSD in a thread on the distros list.
There was no response.  Additionally, the reporter of a vulnerability
mentioned getting no response to their direct e-mail to your
security-officer address.

At least the distros' list messages were being accepted by the NetBSD
mail server.  (I checked our logs.)

I think you're one of the people subscribed to distros for NetBSD (until
I suspended the subscription for reasons mentioned above half an hour
ago).  Right?  Did you receive those messages?  If not, let's
troubleshoot that now.  If you did, then why the lack of response?

Are you also on oss-security?  I can't find you among the subscribers.

> What are we doing these days? We're looking into the pre-announcement
> that everyone else is looking at for NetBSD, and pkgsrc is even more
> vibrant than ever, runs on a huge number of platforms, and is still
> reporting CVEs in the usual way - we were told some minor Linux
> distributions use the pkgsrc notification mechanism, so, for their
> sakes, I'd ask that you continue to keep us in the loop, please.

Sounds reasonable, but let's figure out what went wrong above first.

I'm sorry for maybe creating drama, but this was already first brought
up on the distros list itself (and elicited no response from any NetBSD
person), and besides stuff on the distros list isn't meant to stay
private forever anyway (even though this normally applies to
vulnerabilities rather than to administrivia).

Thanks,

Alexander
