
Date: 28 Dec 2005 20:03:59 -0000
From: contact.removethis@...ovethis.airscanner.com
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Airscanner Mobile Security Advisory #05083102 Spb Kiosk Engine
 Program Bypass


Airscanner Mobile Security Advisory #05083102:
Spb Kiosk Engine Program Bypass

Product:
Kiosk Engine 1.0.0.1

Platform:
Tested on Windows Mobile Pocket PC 2003

Requirements:
Mobile device running Windows Mobile Pocket PC with Kiosk Engine 1.0.0.1 installed

Credits:
Seth Fogie
Airscanner Mobile Security
http://www.airscanner.com
Mobile Antivirus Researchers Association
http://www.mobileav.org
August 30 2005

Risk Level:
Medium. Local attacker gains unauthorized control over device.

Summary:
Spb Kiosk Engine allows you to run your custom application(s) in kiosk mode. In this mode, the target applications are the only ones that can be used on a specific Pocket PC device.

Details:
The core Kiosk Engine is executed from the \windows\startup folder when the PDA boots. This ensures that the device is locked down and basically keeps a person from using other programs on the PDA. However, it is still possible to execute programs via 'features' of the running appliaction (eg. Pocket Word will execute programs via hyperlink - file://\windows\calc.exe). In addition, autorun is still enabled on the devices, which allows anyone with a SD Card or CF card to execute their own code on the device. Using this backdoor, we were able to overwrite the administrator passcode and alternately, remove the KioskEngine software altogether.

Workaround:
Disable autorun on the device by placing an autorun.exe file in the \windows directory with read-only options.

Vendor Response
Waiting response.

Weblinks for advisories 05083101 and 05083102 
http://www.airscanner.com/security/05083101_kioskpass.htm

http://www.airscanner.com/security/05083102_kioskremove.htm


Copyright (c) 2005 Airscanner Corp.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express written consent of Airscanner Corp. If you wish to reprint the whole or any part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically, please contact Airscanner Corp. for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use of the information constitutes acceptance for use on an AS IS condition. There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct, indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or reliance on, this information.


