
Date: Wed, 02 May 2007 14:53:22 -0400
From: iDefense Labs <labs-no-reply@...fense.com>
To: vulnwatch@...nwatch.org, full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk,
	bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: iDefense Security Advisory 05.02.07: LiveData Protocol Server Heap
 Overflow Vulnerability

LiveData Protocol Server Heap Overflow Vulnerability

iDefense Security Advisory 05.02.07
http://labs.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/
May 02, 2007

I. BACKGROUND

LiveData is a provider of real-time data acquisition and processing
software. LiveData Protocol Server is used in SCADA environments to
record and transmit data to other control points in process control
networks. The LiveData server includes a HTTP server that offers a SOAP
interface to the product. More information is available at the vendor's
web site at the following URL.

http://www.livedata.com/

II. DESCRIPTION

Remote exploitation of a heap overflow vulnerability within LiveData's
Protocol Server could allow an attacker to cause the service to crash
or potentially execute arbitrary code with SYSTEM privileges.

The vulnerability specifically exists due to the the handling of
requests for
WSDL files. By supplying a specially crafted request to the service on port
8080, an attacker is able to supply a negative length value to a strncpy
call.
This value is interpreted by strncpy as a very large positive value. As a
result, a memory access violation occurs when attempting to write data
past the
end of the heap memory segment.

III. ANALYSIS

Exploitation allows an attacker to crash the LiveDataServer service or
potentially execute arbitrary code.

Arbitrary code execution would depend on overwriting heap data that is
used within a different thread. A race condition would have to exist
where the flow of execution would be diverted before the application
terminated from the memory access violation.

IV. DETECTION

iDefense has confirmed the existence of this vulnerability in LiveData
Protocol Server version 5.00.045 which was the current release as of
September 13th 2006.

V. WORKAROUND

In order to mitigate potential exploitation, iDefense recommends
blocking access to port 8080 by using a firewall.

VI. VENDOR RESPONSE

LiveData has addressed this vulnerability with updated versions of their
software. The following versions are reported to be fixed.

  RTI update 500062
  Protocol Server update 500062
  Maintenance Server update 500062

VII. CVE INFORMATION

A Mitre Corp. Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) number has not
been assigned yet.

VIII. DISCLOSURE TIMELINE

01/02/2007  Initial vendor notification
01/03/2007  Initial vendor response
05/02/2007  Coordinated public disclosure

IX. CREDIT

The discoverer of this vulnerability wishes to remain anonymous.

Get paid for vulnerability research
http://labs.idefense.com/methodology/vulnerability/vcp.php

Free tools, research and upcoming events
http://labs.idefense.com/

X. LEGAL NOTICES

Copyright © 2007 iDefense, Inc.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert
electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express
written consent of iDefense. If you wish to reprint the whole or any
part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically,
please e-mail customerservice@...fense.com for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate
at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use
of the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS condition.
 There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct,
indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or
reliance on, this information.
