
Date: Mon, 21 Jul 2008 06:49:25 -0700 (PDT)
From: zhliu@...tinet.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com,
	zhliu@...tinet.com
Subject: FGA-2008-16: EMC Dantz Retrospect 7 backup Client 7.5.116 
     NULL-Pointer reference Denial of Service Vulnerability

FGA-2008-16: EMC Dantz Retrospect 7 backup Client 7.5.116 NULL-Pointer
reference Denial of Service Vulnerability
http://www.fortiguardcenter.com/advisory/FGA-2008-16.html
July 20, 2008

-- Affected Vendors:
EMC

-- Affected Products:
EMC Dantz Retrospect 7 backup Client 7.5.116

-- Vulnerability Details:

There exists vulnerability in EMC's Retrospect Client 7.5.116. which
allows remote attackers to cause a Read Access violation,
(Client termination and loss of backup service) via malformed packets to
TCP port 497, which triggers an assert error.
This is a designed error of EMC Dantz: Using a NULL-Pointer reference by
mistake.

-- Vendor Response:
EMC has issued an update to correct this vulnerability:

http://www.emcinsignia.com/updates

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2008-04-20 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2008-06-30 - Vendor issued update
2088-07-20 - Coordinated public release of advisory

Acknowledgment:

Zhenhua Liu of Fortinet's FortiGuard Global Security Research Team


Disclaimer:

Although Fortinet has attempted to provide accurate information in these
materials, Fortinet assumes no legal responsibility for the accuracy or
completeness of the information. More specific information is available on
request from Fortinet. Please note that Fortinet's product information
does not constitute or contain any guarantee, warranty or legally binding
representation, unless expressly identified as such in a duly signed
writing.

About Fortinet ( www.fortinet.com ):

Fortinet is the pioneer and leading provider of ASIC-accelerated unified
threat management, or UTM, security systems, which are used by enterprises
and service providers to increase their security while reducing total
operating costs. Fortinet solutions were built from the ground up to
integrate multiple levels of security protection--including firewall,
antivirus, intrusion prevention, VPN, spyware prevention and anti-spam --
designed to help customers protect against network and content level
threats. Leveraging a custom ASIC and unified interface, Fortinet
solutions offer advanced security functionality that scales from remote
office to chassis-based solutions with integrated management and
reporting. Fortinet solutions have won multiple awards around the world
and are the only security products that are certified in six programs by
ICSA Labs: (Firewall, Antivirus, IPSec, SSL, Network IPS, and
Anti-Spyware). Fortinet is privately held and based in Sunnyvale,
California.

