
Date: Thu, 3 Mar 2011 13:23:21 -0800
From: Kees Cook <kees@...ntu.com>
To: oss-security@...ts.openwall.com
Subject: Re: Vendor-sec hosting and future of closed lists

Hi,

On Thu, Mar 03, 2011 at 07:12:24PM +0100, Marcus Meissner wrote:
> So I would like to open up a discussion with _all_ OSS Security folks present.
> 
> - Is a closed vendor coordination like vendor-sec still needed at this time?
> 
>   Meaning: does the benefit of a closed group really outweigh the
>   "left out feeling" of non members and its annoyances?

I believe the utility of a closed "vendor coordination" mailing list is
related to the criticality and time-frame of certain flaws.

The goal of such private coordination is to protect end-users, who are
generally running a stable release of various packaged pieces of software
and are not in a position to always use the bleeding-edge. Instead of
making it a race to see which distro can protect their users faster at
the cost of making other distro's users vulnerable, private coordination
has been used to make sure all users of all distros are fixed (or at
least have the packaged fix available) at the same time. I think this
approach still has value, but with some caveats.

Having a single place for vendors to coordinate a fix for critical flaws
seems like a good idea as long as that time-frame is short. The overhead
of coordination only has value if the flaw is serious. The risk of leak or
independent public discovery goes up the longer a fix takes. Therefore,
fixes must be handled quickly. On the flip side, while it seems like
sitting on minor issues isn't a problem, since their criticality is
low so the risk of leak is lower, it actually is a problem because it
does a disservice to upstreams (and end-users) that may not know about
the issue yet. (If no one in the private group is acting on the issue,
it should be made public so more people can see it or work on it.)

Ubuntu's stance on privately reported/discovered flaws has been to choose
a roughly 1 week Coordinated Release Date, email the details to vendor-sec
(and upstream's private email when we can find one). If no one responds,
the CRD expires, and we make the flaw public. So far, this seems to
naturally select the high criticality flaws for quick coordination and
fixing and the less critical issues for becoming public quickly.

For public issues, we've tried to have them raised on oss-security@
or with upstreams directly.

> - If yes, would it be an idea to confine or split into lists of focus groups?
>   (like Linux vendors, BSD vendors, all OSS source using vendors, etc?)

It seems to me that if you're releasing stable package updates for
some portion of the Free Software stack, you should be in the short-CRD
private disclosure fix-coordination mailing list.

> - Or of course the old option is open:
>   Should we proceed with the current state as-is, but throw a bit more
>   GPG encryption on top?

Encryption would reduce the scope of potential leaks, but not eliminate it.
It's not clear to me if the overhead is worth the change in leak risk.

Now, culturally, this has all been about reactive security. It sure
would be nice to have more cultural movement toward proactive security,
especially for the Linux kernel. I don't think a mailing list will fix
that, but I thought I'd bring it up anyway. Proactive security should
be just as valuable as reactive security...

-Kees

-- 
Kees Cook
Ubuntu Security Team
