
Date: Mon, 5 Nov 2007 16:39:55 -0600
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-067: Apple QuickTime PICT File Poly Opcodes Heap Corruption
 Vulnerability

ZDI-07-067: Apple QuickTime PICT File Poly Opcodes Heap Corruption 
Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-067.html
November  5, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-4676

-- Affected Vendor:
Apple

-- Affected Products:
QuickTime 7.2

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Apple QuickTime. User interaction is
required to exploit this vulnerability in that the target must visit a
malicious page or open a malicious file.

The specific flaw exist in the parsing of Poly type opcodes (opcodes
0x0070-74). Due to improper handling of a malformed element in the
structure heap corruption occurs. If properly constructed this can lead
to code execution.

-- Vendor Response:
Apple has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More details
can be found at:

http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=306896

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2007.09.14 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.11.05 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by Ruben Santamarta of reversemode.com.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
