
Date: Wed, 7 Mar 2007 11:53:17 -0800
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-010: Apple Quicktime UDTA Parsing Heap Overflow Vulnerability

ZDI-07-010: Apple Quicktime UDTA Parsing Heap Overflow Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-010.html
March  7, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-0714

-- Affected Vendor:
Apple

-- Affected Products:
Quicktime Player 7.1

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since May 23, 2006 by the pre-existing Digital Vaccine
protection filter ID 4411. For further product information on the
TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Apple Quicktime. User interaction is
required to exploit this vulnerability in that the target must visit a
malicious page or open a malicious file.

The specific flaw exists within the parsing of forged size fields in
user-defined data atoms (UDTA). By setting this field to an overly
large value, an integer overflow occurs resulting in an exploitable
heap overflow. Successful exploitation results in code execution under
the context of the running user.

-- Vendor Response:
Apple has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More details
can be found at:

http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=61798

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2006.05.23 - Pre-existing Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint 
customers
2006.08.14 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.03.07 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by an anonymous researcher.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.
