
Date: Thu, 1 Oct 2009 12:53:59 -0500
From: ZDI Disclosures <zdi-disclosures@...pingpoint.com>
To: bugtraq <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: ZDI-09-067: Novell NetWare NFS Portmapper and RPC Module Stack
 Overflow Vulnerability

ZDI-09-067: Novell NetWare NFS Portmapper and RPC Module Stack Overflow
Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-09-067
September 30, 2009
 
-- Affected Vendors:
Novell
 
-- Affected Products:
Novell Netware
 
-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 8280.
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS, visit:
 
    http://www.tippingpoint.com
 
-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Novell Netware NFS Portmapper daemon.
Authentication is not required to exploit this vulnerability.
 
The specific flaw exists within the processing of CALLIT RPC calls. The
vulnerable daemon explicitly trusts a length field when receiving data
which is later copied into a stack buffer, potentially resulting in a
stack overflow. Successful exploitation of this vulnerability can lead
to remote code execution under the context of the daemon.
 
-- Vendor Response:
Novell has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:
 
http://download.novell.com/Download?buildid=DNxmXuyVPuY~
 
-- Disclosure Timeline:
2009-06-23 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2009-09-30 - Coordinated public release of advisory
 
-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by:
    * Nick DeBaggis
 
-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.
 
Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:
 
    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com
 
The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is
used. TippingPoint does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any
exploit code. Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor,
TippingPoint provides its customers with zero day protection through
its intrusion prevention technology. Explicit details regarding the
specifics of the vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until
an official vendor patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the
altruistic aim of helping to secure a broader user base, TippingPoint
provides this vulnerability information confidentially to security
vendors (including competitors) who have a vulnerability protection or
mitigation product.
 
Our vulnerability disclosure policy is available online at:
 
   http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/disclosure_policy/
 
 


