
Date: Wed, 16 Nov 2005 18:57:22 -0500
From: B Potter <gdead@...oo.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: ShmooCon 2006 - Washington DC


Bugtraq'rs,

ShmooCon 2006 is upon us!  ShmooCon 2005 (aka: the first one) was a  
huge success and we've decided to push our luck and have another one.
The second annual ShmooCon will be January 13-15, in Washington,  
D.C., at the Marriott Wardman Park Hotel.  In a nutshell, over three  
days, there are three tracks:

Break It! -- A track dedicated to the demonstration of techniques,  
software, and devices devised with only one purpose in mind-- 
technology exploitation. You will bear witness to some of the most  
devious minds, source code, and gadgets on the planet that focus  
their energies on breaking the technology we mindless sheep keep on  
buying. Baaaaa.

Build It! -- A track that showcases inventive software & hardware  
solutions--from distributed computing or stealth p2p networks to  
miniature form-factor community wireless network node hardware or  
robotics even. Let loose your inner geek, and feel free to gawk. With  
all the neat stuff, it's important to take notes--that way we all  
have evidence to shoot down some sleazeball patents 5 years from now.

Bof It! -- A track that promotes the open discussion of critical  
information security issues in a "birds of a feather" format. From  
lightning open source code audits or wireless insecurity discussion  
panels to DRM rants or anonymity & privacy strategies--it's down and  
dirty, with plenty of controversy for folks who like hashing it out  
with fellow hackers.  Feel free to throw your Shmooballs here, but no  
fisticuffs, please. Settle your differences with some head-to-head  
Xbox in the evening, instead.

Registration is already open:
http://www.shmoocon.org/registration.html

There are some pretty amusing ads:
http://www.shmoocon.org/ads.html

We're going to have a rather different kind of arcade:
http://www.shmoocon.org/arcade.html

And of course you get a discount at the hotel if you're attending  
ShmooCon... Be sure to give them the conference code from the  
shmoocon website

We plan and execute ShmooCon as a service to the community.  We're  
not making money on this and we've got no plans for world  
domination.  We just want to get smart and interested security geeks  
together in one place, hear some interesting talks, and hopefully  
have some fun at the same time.

Hope to see you in DC in two months.

later

bruce


