
Date: Tue, 11 Apr 2006 16:38:09 +0200 (CEST)
From: <it_underground@...eta.pl>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: IT Underground, London 2006 - call for papers


Hello,

I'd like to announce the call for papers for the IT Underground 
2006, a two-day conference organized by Software Conferences and 
hakin9.lab team in 28-29 June 2006, London, UK.

IT Underground 2006 is a sixth edition of a conference dedicated to 
IT security issues, where remarkable authorities will share their 
knowledge and experience with IT specialists. 

In previous editions we had pleasure to listen to Ofir Arkin, 
Maximillian Dornseif, David h1kari Hulton, Chuck Willis, Charl Van 
der Walt, Shalom Carmel, Martin Herfurt, Adam Laurie, Marcel 
Holtmann, Alexander Kornbrust, Saumil Udayan Shah, Robert Lee Ayers, 
Dave Aitel, Stefano Zanero, Thorsten Holz, Joanna Rutkowska, Michael 
Shema, Piotr Sobolewski, Michal Szymanski, Paul Wouters, Rakan El-
Khalil, Wojciech Dworakowski, K.K. Mookhey, Pawel Krawczyk, Renaud 
Bidou, Jim Geovedi, Neil Archibald, Ilja van Sprunder. 

The dead line for lecture proposals is the 21th of May, 2006 
(however it is better if you send us your proposal soon).

All the detailed information you can find on http://www.
itUnderground.org/ 

IT Underground 2006 - basic characteristics:

when: 28-29 June 2006
where: London, UK
topic: IT Security

We assure: 
- hotel accommodation and transfer, 
- full support for your presentation, both before and during the 
conference, 
- providing the necessary technical facilities for the presentation, 
- assistance in acquiring and publishing presentation materials, 
information about your lecture in the conference brochure, 
- supervising and directing the overall progress of the conference.

Lecture proposals should be sent to:
itunderground@...nderground.pl

-- 
Piotr Sobolewski, IT Underground
http://www.itunderground.org/



-- 
Nie przychodz! Nie przyjezdzaj! Nie dzwon! Zamow ogloszenie drobne do "Gazety Wyborczej" przez internet wchodac na http://www.aaaby.pl/wyborcza i wygraj nawet 10.000 zl!


