
Date: Tue, 22 Mar 2005 08:25:46 +0000 (UTC)
From: cfp@...con.org.au (RUXCON Call for Papers)
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: RUXCON 2005 Call for Papers


Call For Papers

RUXCON would like to announce the call for papers for the third annual RUXCON 
conference.

Breaking from the RUXCON tradition of having the conference in winter months, 
this year the conference will be ran during the 1st and 2nd of October.

As with previous years, RUXCON will be held at the University of Technology, 
Sydney, Australia.

The dead line for submissions is the 31st of August.


What is RUXCON?

	RUXCON is a conference organised by and for the computer security
	community. It is an attempt to bring together the individual talents 
	of the security community through live presentations, activities and 
	demonstrations.

	The conference is held over two days in a relaxed atmosphere, allowing 
	attendees to enjoy themselves whilst expanding their knowledge of 
	security.

	Live presentations, activities and workshops will cover a full range of 
	defensive and offensive security topics, varying from unpublished 
	research to required reading for the public security community.


Presentation Information

	Presentations are set to run for 50 minutes, and will be of a formal 
	nature, with slides and a speech.

	Workshops are slightly shorter, between 30-40 minutes in length in a 
	less formal format, more of a general or introductory skill level.


Presentation Submissions

	RUXCON would like to invite people who are interested in security to 
	submit a presentation or workshop.

	Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

		* Code analysis
		* Exploitation techniques
		* Network scanning and analysis
		* Cryptography
		* Malware Analysis
		* Reverse engineering
		* Forensics and Anti-forensics
		* Social engineering
		* Web application security
		* Legal aspects of computer security and surrounding issues
		* Law enforcement activities
		* Telecommunications security (mobile, GSM, fraud issues, etc.)

	Submissions should thoroughly outline your desired presentation or 
	workshop subject. Accompanying your submission should be the slides 
	you intend to use or a detailed paper explaining your subject.

	If you have any enquiries about submissions, or would like to make a 
	submission, please send an e-mail to presentations ruxcon org au. The 
	deadline for submissions is the 31st of August.

	If approved we will additionally require:

		* A brief personal biography (between 2-5 paragraphs in length),
		  including: skill set, experience, and credentials.
		* A description on your presentation or workshop (between 2-5 
		  paragraphs in length). 

Selection Criteria

	Presentation selection will be based on technical merit. Presentations 
	discussion new, previously undisclosed, defensive or offensive security 
	related material will receive first priority.

Contact Details

	Presentation Submissions: presentations ruxcon org au
	General Enquiries: ruxcon ruxcon org au



