
Date: Thu, 6 Dec 2007 16:40:02 -0600
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-071: HP OpenView Network Node Manager Multiple CGI Buffer Overflows

ZDI-07-071: HP OpenView Network Node Manager Multiple CGI Buffer Overflows
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-071.html
December  6, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-6204

-- Affected Vendor:
Hewlett-Packard

-- Affected Products:
OpenView Network Node Manager 7.51 and below

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 4790. 
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
These vulnerabilities allow remote attackers to execute arbitrary code
on vulnerable installations of Hewlett-Packard (HP) OpenView Network
Node Manager (NNM). Authentication is not required to exploit these
vulnerabilities.

The specific flaws exists within the CGI applications that handle the
management of the NNM server. Due to lack of bounds checking during a
call to sprintf(), sending overly long arguments to the various CGI
variables result in a classic stack overflow leading to compromise of
the remote server. Exploitation leads to code execution running under
the credentials of the web server. Further techniques can be leveraged
to gain full SYSTEM access.

The following is a list of vulnerable CGI applications:

  - ovlogin.exe
  - OpenView5.exe
  - snmpviewer.exe
  - webappmon.exe


-- Vendor Response:
Hewlett-Packard has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found in HP Security Bulletin Document ID c01188923.

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2006.10.10 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.12.06 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by Tenable Network Security.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
