
Date: Tue, 25 May 2004 19:09:13 -0600
From: "Boren, Rich (SSRT)" <rich.boren@...com>
To: <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: [security bulletin]SSRT4724 HP integrated Lights Out (iLO) Denial of Service (DoS) using port zero


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

HP SECURITY BULLETIN
       
HPSBMA01046     REVISION: 0

SSRT4724 - HP integrated Lights Out (iLO) Denial of Service (DoS)
                 using port zero


NOTICE:   There are no restrictions for distribution of this
Bulletin provided that it remains complete and intact.
The information in this Security bulletin should be acted
upon as soon as possible.

INITIAL RELEASE:   24 May 2004

POTENTIAL SECURITY IMPACT:   Denial of Service (DoS)

SOURCE:   HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY

REFERENCES:N/A

VULNERABILITY SUMMARY:

Use Of TCP/IP Reserved Port Zero Causes Integrated Lights-Out
(iLO) To Stop Responding. LAN management products that use
port zero when accessing an Integrated Lights-Out (iLO) in a
ProLiant server will cause iLO to become unresponsive. Port
zero is specified as a reserved port by the Internet
Engineering Task Force (IETF) and should not be used.



SUPPORTED SOFTWARE VERSIONS*:  ONLY impacted versions are listed.
iLO Firmware V1.10 or Later up to, but not including, V1.55.


BACKGROUND:
This problem affects any LAN management product that uses port
zero when accessing iLO in a ProLiant server.  An updated
listing of ProLiant servers with iLO is available at the following
URL:
http://h18013.www1.hp.com/products/servers/management/-
riloe2/supported-servers.html


AFFECTED VERSIONS

   iLO Firmware
   ------------
   action: install revision V1.55 or subsequent

END AFFECTED VERSION


RESOLUTION:
Although HP recommends that port zero not be used (as it is
specified as a reserved port by the Internet Engineering Task
Force), if it is necessary to use port zero, upgrade the iLO
firmware. iLO Firmware Version 1.55 allows the use of port
zero without causing iLO to become unresponsive. iLO
Firmware Version 1.55 is available at the following URL:
http://h18004.www1.hp.com/support/files/lights-out/us/index.html



SUPPORT: For further information, contact HP Services support
channel.


SUBSCRIBE: To initiate a subscription to receive future HP
Security Bulletins via Email:
http://h30046.www3.hp.com/driverAlertProfile.php?regioncode-
=NA&langcode=USENG&jumpid=in_SC-GEN__driverITRC&topiccode=ITRC

On the web page: Driver and Support Alerts/Notifications Sign-up:
Product Selection= Under Step1: your products
1. Select product category: - a minimum of servers must be
    selected.
2. Select product family or search: - a minimum of one product
    must be selected.
3. Add a product: - a minimum of one product must be added.

    In Step 2: your operating system(s)
    - check ALL operating systems for which alerts are required.
    Complete the form and Save.

To update an existing subscription:
http://h30046.www3.hp.com/subSignIn.php

Log in on the web page Subscriber's choice for Business: sign-in.
On the Web page: Subscriber's Choice: your profile summary -
use Edit \Profile to update appropriate sections.
Note: In addition to the individual alerts/notifications for the
select' operating systems/products, subscribers will automatically
receive one copy of alerts for non-operating system categories
(i.e., a subscriber who signs up for all six operating system
alerts will only receive one copy of all the non-operating system
alerts).

REPORT: To report a potential security vulnerability with any HP
supported product, send Email to: security-alert@...com. It is
strongly recommended that security related information being
communicated to HP be encrypted using PGP, especially exploit
information. To obtain the security-alert PGP key please send
an e-mail message to security-alert@...com with the Subject
of 'get key' (no quotes). System management and security
procedures must be reviewed frequently to maintain system
integrity. HP is continually reviewing and enhancing the
security features of software products to provide customers
with current secure solutions.
      
"HP is broadly distributing this Security Bulletin in order to
bring to the attention of users of the affected HP products the
important security information contained in this Bulletin.
HP recommends that all users determine the applicability
of this information to their individual situations and take 
appropriate action. HP does not warrant that this information
is necessarily accurate or complete for all user situations and
consequently, HP will not be responsible for any damages
resulting from user's use or disregard of the information provided
in this Bulletin. To the extent permitted by law, HP disclaims all
warranties, either express or implied, including the warranties of
merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, title and
non-infringement."

(c) Copyright 2004 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
Hewlett-Packard Company shall not be liable for technical or
editorial errors or omissions contained herein. The information
provided is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind. To the
extent permitted by law, neither HP or its affiliates,
subcontractors or suppliers will be liable for incidental, special
or consequential damages including downtime cost; lost
profits; damages relating to the procurement of substitute
products or services; or damages for loss of data software
restoration. The information in this document is subject to
change without notice. Hewlett-Packard Company and the
names of Hewlett-Packard products referenced herein are
trademarks of Hewlett-Packard Company in the United
States and other countries. Other product and company
names mentioned herein may be trademarks of
their respective owners.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGP 8.0.2

iQA/AwUBQLNSYOAfOvwtKn1ZEQKYqgCcDBSGB5lBHR07DwuO/B973VmQVh0AoNkM
/5sTGIlgw4coT5zIgVu0eXPS
=knhP
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----


