
Date: Tue, 03 Apr 2007 15:21:48 -0400
From: iDefense Labs <labs-no-reply@...fense.com>
To: vulnwatch@...nwatch.org, full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk,
	bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: iDefense Security Advisory 04.03.07: Multiple Vendor Kerberos kadmind
 Buffer Overflow Vulnerability

Multiple Vendor Kerberos kadmind Buffer Overflow Vulnerability

iDefense Security Advisory 04.03.07
http://labs.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/
Apr 03, 2007

I. BACKGROUND

Kerberos is a network authentication protocol. It is used in
client-server systems to provide user authentication by using a ticket
based system. kadmind is the Kerberos administration server. It is used
to configure principals and policies on the Kerberos. More information
can be found on the vendor's website at the following URL.

http://web.mit.edu/Kerberos/

II. DESCRIPTION

Remote exploitation of a buffer overflow vulnerability in the Kerberos
kadmind server, as included in various vendors' operating system
distributions, could allow attackers to execute arbitrary code on a
targeted host.

The vulnerability exists within the server's logging function,
klog_vsyslog(). A call is made to vsprintf(), with the destination
buffer passed as a fixed size stack buffer. User input is not properly
validated before being passed to this function, and a stack based
buffer overflow can occur.

III. ANALYSIS

Exploitation allows an attacker to execute arbitrary code with root
privileges on the targeted host.

In order to exploit this vulnerability, an attacker must have valid
credentials stored on the server. Administrator privileges are not
necessary. The kadmind server runs on the master Kerberos server. Since
the master server holds the KDC principal and policy database, a
compromise could lead to a compromise of multiple hosts that use the
server for authentication.

IV. DETECTION

iDefense has confirmed the existence of this vulnerability with Kerberos
version 1.5.1 on Fedora CORE 5. It is likely that all distributions that
contain this version of Kerberos are vulnerable.

V. WORKAROUND

iDefense is currently unaware of any workarounds for this issue.

VI. VENDOR RESPONSE

The MIT Kerberos team has made patches available to address this
vulnerability. For more information consult their advisory at the
following URL.

http://web.mit.edu/Kerberos/advisories/MITKRB5-SA-2007-002-syslog.txt

VII. CVE INFORMATION

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project has assigned the
name CVE-2007-0957 to this issue. This is a candidate for inclusion in
the CVE list (http://cve.mitre.org/), which standardizes names for
security problems.

VIII. DISCLOSURE TIMELINE

02/08/2007  Initial vendor notification
02/08/2007  Initial vendor response
04/03/2007  Coordinated public disclosure

IX. CREDIT

The discoverer of this vulnerability wishes to remain anonymous.

Get paid for vulnerability research
http://labs.idefense.com/methodology/vulnerability/vcp.php

Free tools, research and upcoming events
http://labs.idefense.com/

X. LEGAL NOTICES

Copyright © 2007 iDefense, Inc.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert
electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express
written consent of iDefense. If you wish to reprint the whole or any
part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically,
please e-mail customerservice@...fense.com for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate
at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use
of the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS condition.
 There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct,
indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or
reliance on, this information.
