
Date: Wed, 22 Sep 2004 15:05:14 -0600
From: Sym Security <secure@...antec.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Symantec Enterprise Firewall/VPN and Gateway Security 300 Series Appliances
 Multiple Issues


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

Symantec Security Advisory

SYM04-013

22 September, 2004 

Symantec Enterprise Firewall/VPN and Gateway Security 300 Series
Appliances Multiple Issues

Revision History
None 

Risk Impact
High

Overview
Symantec resolved three high-risk vulnerabilities that had been
identified in the Symantec Firewall/VPN Appliance 100, 200 and 200R
models. The Symantec Gateway Security 320, 360 and 360R are
vulnerable to only two of the issues, which have been resolved. 

All of these vulnerabilities are remotely exploitable and can allow
an attacker to perform a denial of service attack against the
firewall appliance, identify active services in the WAN interface,
and exploit one of these services to collect and alter the firewall's
configuration.  All three vulnerabilities are addressed and resolved
in available updated firmware release builds.

Affected Components
 Symantec Firewall/VPN Appliance 100 (firmware builds prior to build
1.63)
Symantec Firewall/VPN Appliance 200/200R (firmware builds prior to
build 1.63)
Symantec Gateway Security 320 (firmware builds prior to build 622)
Symantec Gateway Security 360/360R (firmware builds prior to build
622)

Details
Rigel Kent Security & Advisory Services notified Symantec of three
high-risk vulnerabilities they identified in the Symantec
Firewall/VPN Appliance during an assessment.  All are remotely
exploitable and could allow an attacker to perform a denial of
service (DoS) attack against the firewall appliance, identify active
services in the WAN interface, and exploit one of the identified
services to collect and alter the firewall?s configuration.  The
Symantec Firewall/VPN Appliances, models 100, 200 and 200R are
vulnerable to all three issues.  The Symantec Gateway Security models
320, 360 and 360R are not vulnerable to the Denial of Service issue
but have been validated as being vulnerable to the other two issues.

Symantec Response
Symantec confirmed the vulnerabilities mentioned above and
coordinated extensively with Rigel Kent Security & Advisory Services
to finalize and thoroughly test the fixes for Symantec?s affected
products. 

Symantec has released firmware builds labeled 1.63 for Symantec
Firewall/VPN Appliance models100, 200 and 200R.  Symantec has also
released firmware builds 622 for the Symantec Gateway Security
Appliance models 320, 360 and 360R that fix the two issues impacting
those products. 

NOTE:  The Symantec Gateway Security 300 series appliances are not
vulnerable to the DoS issue.

Symantec strongly recommends customers apply the appropriate firmware
for their affected product models/versions immediately to protect
against these types of threat. 

Product specific firmware and hotfixes are available via the Symantec
Enterprise Support site http://www.symantec.com/techsupp.

Symantec is not aware of any active attempts against or organizations
impacted by this issue. 

CVE
CVE candidate numbers have been requested from The Common
Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) initiative.  This advisory will
be revised as required once CVE candidate numbers have been assigned.
These issues are candidates for inclusion in the CVE list
(http://cve.mitre.org), which standardizes names for security
problems.

Credit:
Symantec appreciates the actions of Mike Sues and the Rigel Kent
Security & Advisory team in identifying these issues, notifying
Symantec, and their extensive cooperation and coordination while
Symantec worked to resolve all issues.

Symantec Product Security Contact:
Symantec takes the security and proper functionality of its products
very seriously.  As founding members in the Organization for Internet
Safety, Symantec follows the process of responsible disclosure. 
Symantec also subscribes to the vulnerability guidelines outlined by
the National Infrastructure Advisory Council (NIAC).  Please contact
secure@...antec.com if you feel you have discovered a potential or
actual security issue with a Symantec product.

Symantec strongly recommends using encrypted email for reporting
vulnerability information to secure@...antec.com.  The Symantec
Product Security PGP key can be obtained here.

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
- ----------

Copyright (c) 2004 by Symantec Corp.
Permission to redistribute this alert electronically is granted as
long as it is not edited in any way unless authorized by Symantec
Security Response. Reprinting the whole or parts of this alert in any
medium other than electronically requires permission from
symsecurity@...antec.com.

Disclaimer
The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate at the
time of publishing based on currently available information. Use of
the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS condition.
There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct,
indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or
reliance on, this information.

Symantec, Symantec products, and SymSecurity are registered
trademarks of Symantec Corp. and/or affiliated companies in the
United States and other countries. All other registered and
unregistered trademarks represented in this document are the sole
property of their respective companies/owners. 

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGP 8.0.2

iQA/AwUBQVHo6gLsezw0Sg5hEQK7bgCfQDf1of2TatZuI/qTPV0qzO6eqAcAnRaP
tKBGjVPOtzGwh2pNhS9mTg/s
=BYzP
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----


