
Date: Thu, 16 Aug 2007 17:00:40 -0700
From: "David Hulton" <0x31337@...il.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: ToorCon 9 CFP

Hey guys,

Just thought I'd shoot this out to you all and let you know that we're
doing our first round of speaker selection on Sunday the 19th.
Otherwise, we'll be accepting submissions until September 9th.

Thanks!
-David


--snip--

TOORCON 9 CFP

Papers and presentations are being accepted for ToorCon 9 to be held at
the Convention Center in San Diego, CA on October 19th-21st, 2007. Please
email your submissions to cfp [at] toorcon.org; submissions will be accepted
until September 9th, 2007.


ABOUT TOORCON

ToorCon is just around the corner again this year. In its 9th running
year, it is still San Diego's exclusive hacker convention, bringing
together Southern California's hacker community year after year to attend
the high quality presentations and participate in the annual festivities.

This year we've decided to try making our conference format a bit more
dynamic and present things in a way that makes it easier for the people
attending to get the info they need. Most technical talks don't require a
full 50 minutes when presented to a technical audience, but 50 min talks
are often useful for people who are new to a topic. Because of this, we
will be accepting all of our talks this year as 20 min talks and depending
on scheduling, some of the talks may be asked to be extended to 50 min.

We will also be hosting the normal Deep Knowledge Seminars on Friday
and Workshops on Thursday.


SUBMISSION OF PAPERS

ToorCon only accepts talks on new technologies and methodologies that have
been recently developed. We will not accept papers that have already been
presented prior to 2007, unless they present fundamental concepts or
conform to any of the outlined topics below.

Special consideration will be given to papers addressing the following
topics:

* Reverse Engineering
* Protocol Analysis
* Cryptography
* Hardware Hacks
* Anything related to the number 9

All conference talks should be submitted for 20 minutes in length. 10
additional minutes will be provided for Q/A, setup, and breaks between each
talk. People who submit 20 min talks may be asked to present a more in-depth
50 min talk. Deep Knowledge Seminar talks should be 75 minutes in length and
should include hands-on participation for an audience of 25-35 people.
Inclusion of any talk related tools, white papers or source code will help
during the selection process. While we try to facilitate speakers' requests
for equipment, we may not be able to accommodate all requests. In cases
where we cannot guarantee special equipment the speaker is expected to
supply hardware and/or software. Each speaker is also expected to bring
their own laptop to display their presentation.

All talks must be vendor neutral, while speakers are welcome to present on
behalf of a company - sales pitches will be thrown out.


REMUNERATION

For each chosen presentation ToorCon will give the speaker and 1 guest
free admission to the conference, admission to the Deep Knowledge Seminars
(limited to the first 10 speakers to request admission), and lots of free
drinks :-).


SPEAKER REQUIREMENTS

Please include the following information with your submission:

1. What title you are submitting your paper under.
2. A valid e-mail address AND telephone number where you can be
  reached.
3. Number of people that will be presenting.
4. A brief description of your talk and what will be presented
5. A brief biography on why you are qualified to speak on your
  topic. This and your description will be used on
  toorcon.org as well as in any press material for the
  conference.
6. Would you prefer that your talk was given 50 min?
7. If you are speaking under a company name, please specify for
  which company you work.
8. Would you like to be considered for speaking at the Deep
  Knoweldge Seminars?

Note that by presenting at ToorCon 9 you grant ToorCon permission to
reproduce, distribute and/or advertise your talk as seen fit. If your talk
is accepted and because of some emergency you are unable to speak, you
must notify ToorCon within 24 hours of your talk, otherwise ToorCon
reserves the right to tell all the other fellow hacker cons how you
ditched out at the last minute and take it into consideration the next
time you submit a talk :).


LOCATION INFORMATION

This year's event will be held at the San Diego Convention Center. The
reception and conference will take place on October 19th-October 21st
in meeting rooms 25-27 at the San Diego Convention Center's (front)
upper level.

October 19th-21st, 2007
San Diego Convention Center
111 W. Harbor Drive
San Diego, CA 92101
http://sdccc.org


IMPORTANT DATES

July 29th, 2007: Official Call For Papers issued
August 19th, 2007: First round of selection announced
September 9th, 2007: Call for Papers closes
October 1st, 2007: Final material submission for collateral
October 19th, 2007: ToorCon 9
