
Date: Tue, 8 Jun 2010 13:02:00 -0500
From: ZDI Disclosures <zdi-disclosures@...pingpoint.com>
To: "'full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk'" <full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk>,
	"'bugtraq@...urityfocus.com'" <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: ZDI-10-105: Hewlett-Packard OpenView NNM ovwebsnmpsrv.exe Bad
 Option Remote Code Execution Vulnerability

ZDI-10-105: Hewlett-Packard OpenView NNM ovwebsnmpsrv.exe Bad Option Remote Code Execution Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-10-105
June 8, 2010

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2010-1960

-- Affected Vendors:
Hewlett-Packard

-- Affected Products:
Hewlett-Packard OpenView Network Node Manager

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 9283. 
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS, visit:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Hewlett-Packard OpenView Network Node
Manager. Authentication is not required to exploit this vulnerability.

The specific flaw exists within the ovwebsnmpsrv.exe process which can
be reached remotely through the jovgraph.exe CGI program. When the
ovwebsnmpsrv.exe process is started a function responsible for parsing
command line arguments does not properly handle unrecognized options. By
supplying an overly large unrecognized option through an HTTP request
the error handling functionality can be made to overflow a static buffer
while creating the error message. An attacker can leverage this to
execute arbitrary code under the context of the user running the
webserver.

-- Vendor Response:
Hewlett-Packard has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:

http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/Document.jsp?objectID=c02217439

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2010-02-02 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2010-06-08 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by:
    * Anonymous

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is
used. TippingPoint does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any
exploit code. Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor,
TippingPoint provides its customers with zero day protection through
its intrusion prevention technology. Explicit details regarding the
specifics of the vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until
an official vendor patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the
altruistic aim of helping to secure a broader user base, TippingPoint
provides this vulnerability information confidentially to security
vendors (including competitors) who have a vulnerability protection or
mitigation product.

Our vulnerability disclosure policy is available online at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/disclosure_policy/

Follow the ZDI on Twitter:

    http://twitter.com/thezdi