
Date: Tue, 10 Jul 2007 16:29:57 +0100
From: "Dafydd Stuttard" <daf@...software.com>
To: <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: Whitepaper - DNS pinning and web proxies

DNS-based attacks against browsers have been known about for years. These
attacks have received increased attention recently, following the discovery
of defects within browser-based DNS pinning defences.

So far, discussion has focused on browser issues. However, the same attacks
can also be performed against web proxies. Browser-based DNS pinning does
not apply when a web proxy is being used, because the DNS look-ups occur on
the proxy, not the browser. Hence, even if DNS-based attacks are completely
addressed within browsers, the problem is not going to go away altogether.

The most significant opportunities for DNS-based attacks are against web
users on internal corporate networks, as a means of gaining unauthorised
access to sensitive information and web applications on internal intranets.
Given that a large proportion of these users access the Internet via a proxy
server, attacks against web proxies may represent at least as significant a
threat as those against browsers.

I've written a short paper which explains the problem, examines possible
software-based solutions, and describes the defences that organisations and
individuals can use to prevent attacks against them. You can find the paper
here:

http://www.ngssoftware.com/research/papers/DnsPinningAndWebProxies.pdf


Cheers,

Dafydd Stuttard
Principal Security Consultant
NGS Software Ltd
 
-- 

--
E-MAIL DISCLAIMER

The information contained in this email and any subsequent
correspondence is private, is solely for the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential or privileged information. For those other than
the intended recipient(s), any disclosure, copying, distribution, or any
other action taken, or omitted to be taken, in reliance on such
information is prohibited and may be unlawful. If you are not the
intended recipient and have received this message in error, please
inform the sender and delete this mail and any attachments.

The views expressed in this email do not necessarily reflect NGS policy.
NGS accepts no liability or responsibility for any onward transmission
or use of emails and attachments having left the NGS domain.

NGS and NGSSoftware are trading names of Next Generation Security
Software Ltd. Registered office address: 52 Throwley Way, Sutton, SM1
4BF with Company Number 04225835 and VAT Number 783096402
