
Date: Wed, 5 May 2004 11:09:57 +0100
From: "advisories" <advisories@...saire.com>
To: <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: Corsaire Security Advisory - Verity Ultraseek path disclosure issue



-- Corsaire Security Advisory --

Title: Verity Ultraseek path disclosure issue
Date: 04.01.13
Application: Verity Ultraseek 5.2.1 and prior
Environment: Solaris 7, Windows NT, Windows 2000, Redhat Linux
Author: Martin O'Neal [martin.oneal@...saire.com]
Audience: Vendor notification
Reference: c040113-001


-- Scope --

The aim of this document is to clearly define a vulnerability in the
Verity Ultraseek search product, as supplied by Verity Inc. [1], that 
allows an attacker to disclose the actual path of the server side 
document root.


-- History --

Discovered: 13.01.04 
Vendor notified: 14.01.04
Scheduled release: 30.04.04
Verity requested delay due to bug in patch: 30.04.04
Document released: 05.05.04


-- Overview --

The Verity Ultraseek product provides a web-based search solution. In 
the event of an invalid value being entered, the actual path of the 
server side document root is disclosed in the error response.


-- Analysis --

The Ultraseek product provides its own web server interface, which 
parses URLs and returns search data based on the users selections. If a 
document path consisting of a standard device name (NUL, CON, AUX, COM1, 
COM2 etc) is entered, then the application responds with an error page 
that contains the actual path of the server side document root. 

This path can then be used in conjunction with other potential 
vulnerabilities to attack specific OS and application configuration 
files.


-- Recommendations --

The vendor has released version 5.2.2 of the Ultraseek product, which is 
reported not to be susceptible to this issue (although this has not been 
independently verified by Corsaire). 


-- CVE --

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project has assigned
the name CAN-2004-0050 to this issue. This is a candidate for
inclusion in the CVE list (http://cve.mitre.org), which standardises
names for security problems.


-- References --

[1] http://www.verity.com


-- Revision --

a. Initial release.
b. Revised to include clearer device name definition.
c. Revised history section.
d. Released.


-- Distribution --

This security advisory may be freely distributed, provided that it 
remains unaltered and in its original form. 


-- Disclaimer --

The information contained within this advisory is supplied "as-is" with 
no warranties or guarantees of fitness of use or otherwise. Corsaire 
accepts no responsibility for any damage caused by the use or misuse of 
this information.


-- About Corsaire --

Corsaire are a leading information security consultancy, founded in 1997 
in Guildford, Surrey, UK. Corsaire bring innovation, integrity and 
analytical rigour to every job, which means fast and dramatic security 
performance improvements. Our services centre on the delivery of 
information security planning, assessment, implementation, management 
and vulnerability research. 

A free guide to selecting your security assessment supplier is available 
at http://www.penetration-testing.com 


Copyright 2004 Corsaire Limited. All rights reserved. 





