
Date: Thu, 8 Nov 2007 21:18:34 -0700
From: Dragos Ruiu <dr@....net>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: CanSecWest 2008 CFP (deadline Nov 30, conf Mar 26-28) and PacSec Dojo's

I'd like to congratulate Adam Laurie for winning the second Powerbook
from the Pwn_to_Own contest as the prize for the best speaker rated
by the audience for his presentation on RFID at CanSecWest 2007.
We will have a similar prize for the best speaker at CanSecWest 2008,
prize TBD (but we promise it will be cool - depending on what we find
trawling though the electronics shops in Akihabara this year :).

**

The Security Masters Dojo courses available at PacSec in Tokyo
on November 27/28 2007 have been updated. The final list is:

   Ultimate Web Hacking  - Yeng-Min Chen (Japanese)
   Reverse Engineering  - Yuji Ukai (Japanese)
   The Exploit Laboratory - Saumil Shah (English)
   Advanced Honeypot Tactics - Thorsten Holz (English)
   Advanced Linux Hardening - Andrea Barisani (English)
   Bugfinding with the Immunity Debugger - Nicolas Waisman & Kostya 
Kortchinski (English)
   Practical 802.11 Wi-Fi (In)Security - Cedric Blancher (English)

**

CanSecWest 2008 CALL FOR PAPERS

   VANCOUVER, Canada -- The ninth annual CanSecWest applied technical
   security conference - where the eminent figures in the
   international security industry will get together share best
   practices and technology - will be held in downtown Vancouver at
   the the Mariott Renaissance Harbourside on March 26-28, 2008.  The
   most significant new discoveries about computer network hack
   attacks and defenses, commercial security solutions, and pragmatic
   real world security experience will be presented in a series of
   informative tutorials.

   The CanSecWest meeting provides international researchers a
   relaxed, comfortable environment to learn from informative
   tutorials on key developments in security technology, and
   collaborate and socialize with their peers in one of the world's
   most scenic cities - a short drive away from one of North
   America's top skiing areas.

   The CanSecWest conference will also feature the availability of
   the Security Masters Dojo expert network security sensei
   instructors, and their advanced, and intermediate, hands-on
   training courses - featuring small class sizes and practical
   application excercises to maximize information transfer.

   We would like to announce the opportunity to submit papers, and/or
   lightning talk proposals for selection by the CanSecWest technical
   review committee. This year we will be doing one hour talks, and
   some shorter 20/30 minute talk sessions.

   Please make your paper proposal submissions before November 30th,
   2007.

   Some invited papers have been confirmed, but a limited number of
   speaking slots are still available. The conference is responsible
   for travel and accomodations for the speakers. If you have a
   proposal for a tutorial session then please email a synopsis of
   the material and your biography, papers and, speaking background
   to _secwest08_@...secwest.com (please remove _'s). Only 
   slides will be needed for the March paper deadline, full text does 
   not have to be submitted - but will be accepted if available.

   The CanSecWest 2008 conference consists of tutorials on technical
   details about current issues, innovative techniques and best
   practices in the information security realm. The audiences are a
   multi-national mix of professionals involved on a daily basis with
   security work: security product vendors, programmers, security
   officers, and network administrators. We give preference to
   technical details and new education for a technical audience.

   The conference itself is a single track series of presentations in
   a lecture theater environment. The presentations offer speakers
   the opportunity to showcase on-going research and collaborate with
   peers while educating and highlighting advancements in security
   products and techniques. The focus is on innovation, tutorials,
   and education instead of product pitches. Some commercial content
   is tolerated, but it needs to be backed up by a technical
   presenter - either giving a valuable tutorial and best practices
   instruction or detailing significant new technology in the
   products.

   Paper proposals should consist of the following information:
    1. Presenter, and geographical location (country of
       origin/passport) and contact info (e-mail, postal address,
       phone, fax).
    2. Employer and/or affiliations.
    3. Brief biography, list of publications and papers.
    4. Any significant presentation and educational
       experience/background.
    5. Topic synopsis, Proposed paper title, and a one paragraph
       description.
    6. Reason why this material is innovative or significant or an
       important tutorial.
    7. Optionally, any samples of prepared material or outlines
       ready.
    8. Will you have full text available or only slides?
    9. Please list any other publications or conferences where this
       material has been or will be published/submitted.

   Please include the plain text version of this information in your
   email as well as any file, pdf, odt, docx, ppt, odp, or html attachments.

   Please forward the above information to _secwest08_@...secwest.com 
   (remove _'s) to be considered for placement on the speaker
   roster, or have your lightning talk scheduled.

You can find more information at:
http://pacsec.jp and http://cansecwest.com

The Vancouver Dojos will be held on March 24/25 and will
be announced shortly.

cheers.
--dr

-- 
World Security Pros. Cutting Edge Training, Tools, and Techniques
Tokyo, Japan    November 29/30 - 2007    http://pacsec.jp
pgpkey http://dragos.com/ kyxpgp
