
Date: Fri, 13 Oct 2006 07:21:51 -0500 (CDT)
From: Gadi Evron <ge@...uxbox.org>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: ISOI II - a DA Workshop (announcement and CFP)

[Apologies to those who receive this message multiple times]

The second Internet Security Operations and Intelligence (ISOI) DA
workshop will take place on the 25th and 26th of January, 2007. It will be
hosted by the Microsoft Corporation, in Redmond WA. An after-party dinner
will be hosted by Trendmicro.

This workshop's main topic is BotMaster Operational Tactics - the use of
vulnerabilities and 0day exploits in the wild. (by spyware, phishing and
botnets for their businesses).
Secondary subjects include DDoS, phishing and general botnet subjects.

The workshop's purpose is to bring together members of the Internet 
security operations community at large and DA and MWP specifically, and
share information, as well as plan our future operations.
It is open only to the following vetted communities: DA, MWP (and sister
communities such as routesec), OARC, NSP-SEC, FIRST. MAAWG, anti virus 
vetted groups and the honey net project.

Among the attendees are:
Professionals from Internet Service Providers (ISPs), Anti Virus vendors,
Anti Spam vendors and projects, CERT teams, Law Enforcement, Academia,
etc. coming together to work on the most recent technology, intelligence
and operations being done online today for the security of the Internet.

No reporters are allowed.

CFP:
The call for papers is now open to the public. The main subject of
interest is vulnerabilities and 0day exploits used in the wild. Secondary
subjects are DDoS, phishing and general botnet subjects.

Submission is simple, email us directly with your topic and some data to
back it up by December 10th, to contact@...tf.org.

For more information please visit:
http://isotf.org/isoi2.html

For the agenda of our previous workshop hosted by Cisco Systems, Inc.,
please visit:
http://isotf.org/isoi.html

Gadi Evron,
ISOI/DA coordinator and organizer.

