
Date: Wed, 24 Oct 2007 13:17:50 -0400
From: iDefense Labs <labs-no-reply@...fense.com>
To: vulnwatch@...nwatch.org, full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk,
	bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: iDefense Security Advisory 10.23.07: IBM Lotus Domino IMAP Buffer
 Overflow Vulnerability

IBM Lotus Domino IMAP Buffer Overflow Vulnerability

iDefense Security Advisory 10.23.07
http://labs.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/
Oct 23, 2007

I. BACKGROUND

IBM Lotus Domino Server software provides messaging, calendaring and
scheduling capabilities on a variety of operating systems. More
information about the product is available at the following URL.

http://www-142.ibm.com/software/sw-lotus/domino

II. DESCRIPTION

Remote exploitation of a buffer overflow vulnerability within IBM
Corp.'s Lotus Domino allows attackers to execute arbitrary code in the
context of the IMAP service.

This vulnerability exists within the IMAP component of a Domino Server.
The problem specifically lies in the handling of mailbox names within
specific commands. If a user has subscribed to a mailbox with an overly
long name, certain commands will copy the user-supplied mailbox name
into a fixed-size stack buffer without proper validation.

III. ANALYSIS

Exploitation allows attackers to execute arbitrary code in the context
of the IMAP service. In order to conduct the attack, the attacker must
be able to establish a TCP session with the IMAP service on TCP port
143. Valid credentials are required to access the vulnerable code.

Under Windows, the privileges gained are (by default) that of the SYSTEM
user. This allows an attacker to take complete control of the
compromised system.

Although the UNIX version of the service does not run as root, it does
run as the same user as many other components of the Lotus Domino
Server. Because of this an attacker may gain access to sensitive
information or be able to maliciously subvert the system in other ways.

IV. DETECTION

iDefense has confirmed the existence of this vulnerability within
version 7.0.2.2 of Lotus Domino running on Linux as well as Windows
Server 2003. Previous versions, as well as builds for other platforms,
are suspected to be vulnerable.

V. WORKAROUND

Employing firewalls to limit access to the affected service will
mitigate exposure to this vulnerability.

VI. VENDOR RESPONSE

IBM Lotus has addressed this vulnerability within versions 6.5.6 Fix
Pack 2 (FP2), 7.0.3 and 8.0 of Lotus Domino. For more information,
visit the following URL.

http://www-1.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?rs=477&uid=swg21270623

VII. CVE INFORMATION

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project has assigned the
name CVE-2007-3510 to this issue. This is a candidate for inclusion in
the CVE list (http://cve.mitre.org/), which standardizes names for
security problems.

VIII. DISCLOSURE TIMELINE

06/27/2007  Initial vendor notification
06/28/2007  Initial vendor response
10/23/2007  Coordinated public disclosure

IX. CREDIT

This vulnerability was reported to iDefense by Manuel Santamarina
Suarez.

Get paid for vulnerability research
http://labs.idefense.com/methodology/vulnerability/vcp.php

Free tools, research and upcoming events
http://labs.idefense.com/

X. LEGAL NOTICES

Copyright © 2007 iDefense, Inc.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert
electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express
written consent of iDefense. If you wish to reprint the whole or any
part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically,
please e-mail customerservice@...fense.com for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate
at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use
of the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS condition.
 There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct,
indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or
reliance on, this information.
