
Date: Mon, 02 Aug 2004 09:04:39 +1200
From: "neil gardner" <neil.gardner@...iedtelesyn.co.nz>
To: <mlopez@...tc.org>, <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: Re: Sonicwall diag tool includes VPN credentlials


Nope, as a Sonicwall Certified Engineer I can tell you this is basically
wrong.

Yes, it does save all the important keys in Plaintext, but only if you
don't read the manual which warns about this, and only if you click ok
on the dialog box pop-up which warns you about this when you go to do
it.

The legit need for this BTW is when you have to replicate a firewall
config onto another Sonicwall box that's perhaps different architecture
and you need a human readable copy of all the keys etc.

Cheers- Neil Gardner

ps. The more interesting Sonicwall issue is that if you don't change
the default IP address of the Sonicwall (192.168.168.168) then anyone
with access to your LAN segment can change the LAN Ip address of the
Sonicwall using a publically available Sonicwall utility - even if the
box has had it's username/password changed.... If I bothered to sniff
out the transaction I would probably be able to recreate the ARP request
that does this. I reported this in person to a Senior SOnicwall tech rep
and he didn't think it was an issue. Go Figure.



>>> Milton Lopez <mlopez@...tc.org> 31/07/2004 9:46:07 a.m. >>>


Our Sonicwall Pro 300 firewall appliance includes a diagnostic tool
called "Tech Support Report", which dumps the current configuration info
to a plain text file. I have been asked by Sonicwall personnel to email
this file as an attachment during several tech. support calls, without
any additional warning or explanation. One of the items included in the
report is a plain-text copy of the Shared Secret used for authenticating
VPN users. Unless everything I've read about protecting this kind of
information

NOTICE: This message contains privileged and confidential
information intended only for the use of the addressee
named above. If you are not the intended recipient of
this message you are hereby notified that you must not
disseminate, copy or take any action in reliance on it.
If you have received this message in error please
notify Allied Telesyn Research Ltd immediately.
Any views expressed in this message are those of the
individual sender, except where the sender has the
authority to issue and specifically states them to
be the views of Allied Telesyn Research.


