
Date: 13 Feb 2007 21:23:47 -0000
From: research@...antec.com
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: SYMSA-2007-002: Palm OS Treo Find Feature System Password Bypass

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1




                   Symantec Vulnerability Research
                   http://www.symantec.com/research
                         Security Advisory

   Advisory ID: SYMSA-2007-002
Advisory Title: Palm OS Treo Find Feature System Password Bypass
       Authors: J.R. Wikes, Matt Cooley, & Scott King
  Release Date: 14-02-2007
   Application: N/A
     Platforms: Palm OS Treo smart phones - Tested on Verizon,
                Sprint, & Cingular Treo 650 (Treo650-1.03a-VZW &
                Treo650-1.12-SPCS), Cingular Treo 680, and
                Sprint/Verizon Treo 700p phones
      Severity: Locally exploitable
 Vendor status: Verified by vendor. No patch forthcoming.
    CVE Number: CVE-2007-0859
     Reference: http://www.securityfocus.com/bid/22468


Overview:

Palm OS Treo smartphones are equipped with a system password lock
to secure contents of handheld data from unauthorized access.
When this lock is engaged, Treo's built-in Find feature is still
accessible and can be used to perform searches on text in Treo
applications and databases (e.g. SMS Messages, Memos, Calendar,
Tasks, etc).  Search results are accessible, and depending on
their size, may be truncated. An attacker may use this
vulnerability to retrieve information from a locked device.

The built-in Find feature can also be used to access an Edit
window and paste previously cut or copied data into the search
field of a locked device.  An attacker may use this vulnerability
to view data that was cut or copied from Treo applications prior
to the device being locked.


Details:

The Find feature can be accessed when the handheld is locked by
issuing keyboard shortcut keys on the Emergency Call screen and
the Call In Progress screen that is displayed when an incoming
call is accepted. More details for each of these methods is
listed below.

1. Emergency Call Screen

- From the System Lockout screen, select 'Make Emergency Call'.
Press the keyboard shortcut keys for Find (Option Key + Find Key).
This will open the Find window on the bottom half of the screen.
Enter the desired text to search and click on 'OK'. (Searching on
a single space usually returns data)

To access the Edit window, press the Menu key while the Find
window is open.  Select Paste from the Edit window to paste
previously cut or copied data in the Find window.

2. Call In Progress screen

Accept an incoming call.
Press the keyboard shortcut keys for Find (Option Key + Find Key)
during the call.  This will open the Find window on the bottom
half of the screen.  Enter the desired text to search and click
on 'OK'. (Searching on a single space usually returns data)

To access the Edit window, press the Menu key while the Find
window is open.  Select Paste from the Edit window to paste
previously cut or copied data in the Find window.

Note: The Find window will stay open after a call has been
disconnected. However, users will be returned to the Lockout
screen when the find results are closed.


Vendor Response:

14-08-2006: Initial Vendor Notification.
06-09-2006: Vendor acknowledges receipt of vulnerability description.
06-09-2006: Vendor confirms vulnerability.
19-01-2007: Vendor decides not to fix vulnerability.
14-02-2007: Advisory released.


Recommendation:

In the interim of a patch being released to address this
vulnerability, users should be notified of this condition so that
they may take appropriate actions including encrypting sensitive
handheld databases.


Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) Information:

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project has
assigned the following names to these issues.  These are
candidates for inclusion in the CVE list (http://cve.mitre.org),
which standardizes names for security problems.

CVE-2007-0859

- -------Symantec Vulnerability Research Advisory Information-------

For questions about this advisory, or to report an error:
research@...antec.com

For details on Symantec's Vulnerability Reporting Policy:
http://www.symantec.com/research/Symantec-Responsible-Disclosure.pdf

Symantec Vulnerability Research Advisory Archive:
http://www.symantec.com/enterprise/research/archive.jsp

Symantec Vulnerability Research GPG Key:
http://www.symantec.com/research/Symantec_Vulnerability_Research_GPG.asc

- -------------Symantec Product Advisory Information-------------

To Report a Security Vulnerability in a Symantec Product:
secure@...antec.com

For general information on Symantec's Product Vulnerability
reporting and response:
http://www.symantec.com/security/

Symantec Product Advisory Archive:
http://www.symantec.com/avcenter/security/SymantecAdvisories.html

Symantec Product Advisory PGP Key:
http://www.symantec.com/security/Symantec-Vulnerability-Management-Key.asc

- ---------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright (c) 2007 by Symantec Corp.
Permission to redistribute this alert electronically is granted
as long as it is not edited in any way unless authorized by
Symantec Vulnerability Research. Reprinting the whole or part of
this alert in any medium other than electronically requires
permission from research@...antec.com.

Disclaimer
The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate at the
time of publishing based on currently available information. Use
of the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS
condition. There are no warranties with regard to this information.
Neither the author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any
direct, indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use
of, or reliance on, this information.

Symantec, Symantec products, and Symantec Consulting Services are
registered trademarks of Symantec Corp. and/or affiliated companies
in the United States and other countries. All other registered and
unregistered trademarks represented in this document are the sole
property of their respective companies/owners.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.0 (Cygwin)

iD8DBQFF0fdBuk7IIFI45IARAo2OAKCOjb/3hM3y1LqakzIRSjUZrINRQwCffwf/
LiKdpxGBKZXOqMpIzxrYw9M=
=2CJL
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
