
Date: Fri, 5 Jan 2007 13:32:58 -0800
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.Com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.Com
Subject: ZDI-07-001: QUALCOMM Eudora WorldMail Remote Management Heap Overflow
 Vulnerability

ZDI-07-001: QUALCOMM Eudora WorldMail Remote Management Heap Overflow
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-001.html
January  5, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2006-6336

-- Affected Vendor:
QUALCOMM

-- Affected Products:
Eudora WorldMail 3.1.x Mail Management Server

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since December 12, 2006 by Digital Vaccine protection
filter ID 4689. For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Eudora WorldMail. Authentication is not
required to exploit this vulnerability.

The specific flaw exists during the parsing of successive delimiters
within the Mail Management Server, MAILMA.exe, listening on TCP port
106. Processing a maliciously crafted request can result in an
exploitable heap corruption.

-- Vendor Response:
QUALCOMM will not be addressing this issue with a software patch and
instead recommends that administrators block access to the affected
port from untrusted sources at the network level.

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2006.09.15 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2006.12.12 - Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint customers
2007.01.05 - Public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by Leon Juranic, INFIGO IS.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.
