
Date: Wed, 25 Oct 2006 16:34:44 -0400
From: iDefense Labs <labs-no-reply@...fense.com>
To: idlabs-advisories@...fense.com, vulnwatch@...nwatch.org,
	full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: iDefense Security Advisory 10.25.06: AOL Nullsoft Winamp Ultravox
 Lyrics3 v2.00 tags Heap Overflow Vulnerability

AOL Nullsoft Winamp Ultravox Lyrics3 v2.00 tags Heap Overflow Vulnerability

iDefense Security Advisory 10.25.06
http://www.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/
Oct 25, 2006

I. BACKGROUND

Lyrics3 is a system for embedding the lyrics inside an MP3 song file.
The Winamp media player has support for this protocol. More information
about Winamp is available at the following site:

    http://www.winamp.com

II. DESCRIPTION

Remote exploitation of a heap-based buffer overflow vulnerability in the
Ultravox Lyrics3 parsing code in AOL Corp.'s Nullsoft Winamp media
player could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code in the context
of the currently logged in user.

Due to an error in the parsing of certain Lyrics3 tags, a malicious
server can cause the Winamp client to allocate a very small amount of
space and then try fill it with a large amount of server supplied date,
potentially overwriting values which will lead to code execution.

III. ANALYSIS

Exploitation allows remote attackers to execute code in the context of
the user who started Winamp. Exploitation requires that attackers social
engineer victims into connecting to a server. This can be accomplished
by embedding a link in a web page to a playlist file, a 'shout:' URI or
a 'uvox:' URI, which are automatically loaded by Winamp from Internet
Explorer. Alternatively, one of these items could be placed in a
playlist file. However, attackers cannot force users to open the content
they have supplied.

IV. DETECTION

iDefense has confirmed the existence of this vulnerability in version
5.24 and 5.3 of Nullsoft Winamp. Previous versions also may be affected.

V. WORKAROUND

iDefense is currently unaware of any effective workarounds for this
vulnerability.

VI. VENDOR RESPONSE

Nullsoft has released version 5.31 of Winamp to address this problem.

VII. CVE INFORMATION

A Mitre Corp. Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) number has not
been assigned yet.

VIII. DISCLOSURE TIMELINE

10/19/2006  Initial vendor notification
10/25/2006  Initial vendor response
10/25/2006  Coordinated public disclosure

IX. CREDIT

The discoverer of this vulnerability wishes to remain anonymous.

Get paid for vulnerability research
http://www.idefense.com/methodology/vulnerability/vcp.php

Free tools, research and upcoming events
http://labs.idefense.com/

X. LEGAL NOTICES

Copyright © 2006 iDefense, Inc.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert
electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express
written consent of iDefense. If you wish to reprint the whole or any
part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically, please
email customerservice@...fense.com for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate
at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use
of the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS condition.
There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct, indirect,
or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or reliance on,
this information.



