
Date: Tue, 30 Mar 2010 22:36:12 -0400
From: iDefense Labs <labs-no-reply@...fense.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com, vulnwatch@...nwatch.org,
	full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: iDefense Security Advisory 03.30.10: Oracle Java Runtime Environment
 Image FIle Buffer Overflow Vulnerability

iDefense Security Advisory 03.30.10
http://labs.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/
Mar 30, 2010

I. BACKGROUND

The Java Runtime Environment (JRE) is the Sun Microsystems
implementation of the Java run-time. For more information, visit the
link shown below.

 http://www.sun.com/java/

II. DESCRIPTION

Remote exploitation of a buffer overflow vulnerability in Oracle Corp.'s
(formerly Sun Microsystems Inc.) Java Runtime Environment (JRE) could
allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code with the privileges of the
current user. The JRE is a platform that supports the execution of
programs that are developed using the Java programming language. It is
available for multiple platforms, including Windows, Linux and MacOS.
The JRE platform also supports Java Applets, which can be loaded from
Web pages. During the processing of an image file, user-controlled data
is trusted and can result in an undersized allocation of a heap buffer.
A copy operation into the heap buffer can lead to a heap overflow
condition within the JRE. This condition may allow a remote attacker to
subvert execution control and execute arbitrary code.

III. ANALYSIS

Exploitation of this vulnerability results in the execution of arbitrary
code with the privileges of the user viewing the Web page. To exploit
this vulnerability, a targeted user must visit a website and load a
malicious Java Applet created by an attacker. An attacker typically
accomplishes this via social engineering or injecting content into a
compromised, trusted site.

IV. DETECTION

iDefense has confirmed the existence of this vulnerability in version
1.6.0u17 of Java Runtime Environment. iDefense tested the exploitation
of this vulnerability on Windows XP SP3 and Windows XP SP2. A full list
of affected Oracle products can be found in the Oracle Java SE and Java
for Business Critical Patch Update Advisory.

V. WORKAROUND

iDefense is currently unaware of any workarounds for this issue.

VI. VENDOR RESPONSE

Oracle Corp. has released a patch which addresses this issue. For more
information, consult their advisory at the following URL.
http://www.oracle.com/technology/deploy/security/critical-patch-updates/javacpumar2010.html

VII. CVE INFORMATION

A Mitre Corp. Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) number has not
been assigned yet.

VIII. DISCLOSURE TIMELINE

12/15/2009  Initial Vendor Notification
12/16/2009  Initial Vendor Reply
03/30/2010  Coordinated Public Disclosure

IX. CREDIT

This vulnerability was reported to iDefense by regenrecht.

Get paid for vulnerability research
http://labs.idefense.com/methodology/vulnerability/vcp.php

Free tools, research and upcoming events
http://labs.idefense.com/

X. LEGAL NOTICES

Copyright © 2010 iDefense, Inc.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert
electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express
written consent of iDefense. If you wish to reprint the whole or any
part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically,
please e-mail customerservice@...fense.com for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate
at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use
of the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS condition.
 There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct,
indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or
reliance on, this information.
