
Date: Tue, 12 Jul 2005 11:41:40 -0700
From: Dragos Ruiu <dr@....net>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: PacSec/core05 Call For Papers



English url: http://pacsec.jp/speakers.html?LANG=ENGLISH
Japanese url: http://pacsec.jp/speakers.html?LANG=JAPANESE

PacSec/core05 CALL FOR PAPERS 

World Security Pros To Converge on Japan November 15/16

TOKYO, Japan -- To address the increasing importance of information 
security in Japan, the best known figures in the international security
industry will get together with leading Japanese researchers to share 
best practices and technology. The most significant new discoveries
about computer network hack attacks and defenses will be presented 
at the third annual PacSec conference. 

The PacSec/core05 meeting provides an opportunity for foreign 
specialists to be exposed to Japanese innovation and markets, and
to collaborate on practical solutions to computer security issues. In 
a relaxed setting with a mixture of material bilingually translated into
both English and Japanese, the eminent technologists can socialize 
and attend training sessions.

Announcing the opportunity to submit papers for the third annual 
PacSec/core05 network security training conference.  The conference 
will be held November 15/16th in Tokyo at the Aoyama Diamond Hall. 
The conference focuses on emerging information security tutorials - it 
will be a bridge between the international and Japanese information 
security technology communities.

Please make your paper proposal submissions before Aug 1 2005.
Slides for the papers must be submitted by October 1st 2005.
The conference is November 15th and 16th 2005, presenters need
to be available in the days before to meet with interpreters.

Some invited papers have been confirmed, but a limited 
number of speaking slots are still available. The conference is 
responsible for travel and accomodations for the speakers. If you 
have a proposal for a tutorial session then please email a 
synopsis of the material and your biography, papers and, 
speaking background to core05@...sec.jp. Tutorials are
one hour in length, but with simultaneous translation should
be approximately 45 minutes in English, or Japanese. 
Only slides will be needed for the October paper deadline, 
full text does not have to be submitted.

The PacSec/core05 conference consists of tutorials on technical
details about current issues, innovative techniques and best 
practices in the information security realm. The audiences are a 
multi-national mix of professionals involved on a daily basis 
with security work: security product vendors, programmers, 
security officers, and network administrators. We give 
preference to technical details and new education for a 
technical audience.

The conference itself is a single track series of presentations
in a lecture theater environment.  The presentations offer
speakers the opportunity to showcase on-going research
and collaborate with peers while educating and highlighting
advancements in security products and techniques. 
The focus is on innovation, tutorials, and education
instead of product pitches. Some commercial content 
is tolerated, but it needs to be backed up by a technical 
presenter - either giving a valuable tutorial and best 
practices instruction or detailing significant new 
technology in the products. 

Paper proposals should consist of the following information:

1) Presenter, and geographical location (country of origin/passport)
   and contact info (e-mail, postal address, phone, fax).
2) Employer and/or affiliations.
3) Brief biography, list of publications and papers.
4) Any significant presentation and educational experience/background.
5) Topic synopsis, Proposed paper title, and a one paragraph description.
6) Reason why this material is innovative or significant or an 
    important tutorial.
7) Optionally, any samples of prepared material or outlines ready. 


Please forward the above information to core05@...sec.jp to
be considered for placement on the speaker roster.

cheers,
--dr

-- 
World Security Pros. Cutting Edge Training, Tools, and Techniques
Tokyo, Japan	November 15/16 2005  http://pacsec.jp
pgpkey http://dragos.com/ kyxpgp


