
Date: Wed, 09 Sep 2009 13:10:39 +0200
From: Stefano Zanero <s.zanero@...urenetwork.it>
To: Bugtraq <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: SeacureIT Preview Conference 2009

We are glad to announce the first international security conference in
Italy, SeacureIT Preview 2009.

The conference will take place between 21st and 23rd October at Fiera
Milano City, Milan's conference and trade show center, co-located with
SMAU, Italy's largest ICT tradeshow.

The conference will consist of two days of top notch trainings and one
day of bleeding edge talks. Topics of presentations this year include
but are not limited to OSX security, hardware hacking, SAP exploiting,
web 2.0 threats and malware analysis.

Aside from highly technical presentations we are pleased to have a
roundtable and a number of talks focusing on the economic aspect of
cybersecurity, brought to you by well known cybersecurity and cybercrime
experts. To read the full line-up of speakers please see:
http://www.seacure.it/speakers.htm

The conference will be concluded by a networking event with a full
typical Milanese "aperitivo".

For those interested in trainings, the topics range from SAP security to
Oracle hacking, from exploitation techniques to physical security. To
learn more on the trainings, please visit http://www.seacure.it/training.htm

SeacureIT preview (hosted in Milan, the world-renown "city of fashion")
is a launch event for our main conference which will take place in 2010
in beautiful Sardinia, in the middle of the Mediterranean sea. A full
description of this year's location as well as next year's  can be seen
at: http://www.seacure.it/venue.htm

You will have the opportunity of listening to a set of excellent
speakers, at a really convenient entrance fee; additionally, all the
participants to the Preview edition will enjoy a 100 EUR rebate on the
2010 edition of the conference (and the trainings participants will get
a full 200 EUR rebate on any training of their choice next year!).

We hope to see all of you in Milan!

Best regards,
The SeacureIT team
