
Date: Wed, 6 Dec 2006 17:01:12 -0800
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-06-044: Adobe Download Manager AOM Parsing Buffer Overflow
 Vulnerability

ZDI-06-044: Adobe Download Manager AOM Parsing Buffer Overflow 
            Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-06-044.html
December  6, 2006

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2006-5856

-- Affected Vendor:
Adobe

-- Affected Products:
Adobe Download Manager 2.1 and earlier

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since April  3, 2006 by Digital Vaccine protection
filter ID 4280. For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of the Adobe Download Manager application.
User interaction is required to exploit this vulnerability in that the
target must visit a malicious page.

The specific flaw exists in the AOM file format parser. A long [URL]
element inside of a [DownloadRecord] element within an AOM file will
result in a stack-based buffer overflow condition leading to execution
of arbitrary code. The Download Manager is installed during the
installation of of other Adobe products, such as Acrobat Reader. When
installed, the download manager becomes the default application to
handle .AOM files.

-- Vendor Response:
Adobe has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More details
can be found at:

http://www.adobe.com/go/apsb06-19/

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2006.04.03 - Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint customers
2006.04.07 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2006.12.06 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by an anonymous researcher.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.
