
Date: Tue, 9 Dec 2008 15:08:20 -0600
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-08-084: Microsoft Office RTF Consecutive Drawing Object Parsing Heap
 Corruption Vulnerability

ZDI-08-084: Microsoft Office RTF Consecutive Drawing Object Parsing Heap 
Corruption Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-08-084
December 9, 2008

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2008-4027

-- Affected Vendors:
Microsoft

-- Affected Products:
Microsoft Office Word
Microsoft Outlook

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 6607. 
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS, visit:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Microsoft Office. User interaction is
required to exploit this vulnerability in that the target must visit a
malicious page, open a malicious e-mail, or open a malicious file.

The specific flaw exists when parsing malformed RTF documents. When
processing consecutive "\do" Drawing Object tags mso.dll does not
properly verify the integrity of the object and frees a memory buffer
twice, leading to heap corruption. Successful exploitation can lead to
remote compromise of a system under the credentials of the currently
logged in user.

-- Vendor Response:
Microsoft has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:

http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/bulletin/MS08-072.mspx

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2008-05-19 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2008-12-09 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by:
    * wushi of team509

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is
used. TippingPoint does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any
exploit code. Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor,
TippingPoint provides its customers with zero day protection through
its intrusion prevention technology. Explicit details regarding the
specifics of the vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until
an official vendor patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the
altruistic aim of helping to secure a broader user base, TippingPoint
provides this vulnerability information confidentially to security
vendors (including competitors) who have a vulnerability protection or
mitigation product.

Our vulnerability disclosure policy is available online at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/disclosure_policy/

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
