
Date: Mon, 20 Aug 2007 13:40:46 -0700
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com,
	vulnwatch@...nwatch.org, vulndiscuss@...nwatch.org
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-049: EMC Legato Networker Remote Exec Service Stack Overflow
 Vulnerabilities

ZDI-07-049: EMC Legato Networker Remote Exec Service Stack Overflow
            Vulnerabilities
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-049.html
August 20, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-3618

-- Affected Vendor:
EMC Software

-- Affected Products:
Networker 7.x.x

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since August 16, 2007 by Digital Vaccine protection
filter ID 5259. For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
These vulnerabilities allow remote attackers to execute arbitrary code
on vulnerable installations of EMC Networker. Authentication is not
required to exploit this vulnerability.

The specific flaws exist in the Networker Remote Exec Service,
nsrexecd.exe. The location of this service is available by querying the
SUNRPC portmapper on TCP port 111 for service #0x5f3e1, version 1. When
supplying a long invalid subcmd to a poll or a kill request, an
exploitable stack overflow vulnerability can occur within a call to
sprintf().

-- Vendor Response:
EMC has issued updates to correct this vulnerability. More details can
be found in knowledge base article esg83899 available from
powerlink.emc.com. EMC customers can further contact EMC Software
Technical Support at 1-877-534-2867.

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2007.02.23 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.08.16 - Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint customers
2007.08.20 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by Tenable Network Security.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
