
Date: Thu, 05 Oct 2006 13:49:37 -0400
From: iDefense Labs <labs-no-reply@...fense.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com, vulnwatch@...nwatch.org,
	full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: iDefense Security Advisory 10.05.06: Symantec AntiVirus IOCTL Kernel
 Privilege Escalation Vulnerability

Symantec AntiVirus IOCTL Kernel Privilege Escalation Vulnerability

iDefense Security Advisory 10.05.06
http://www.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/
Oct 05, 2006

I. BACKGROUND

Symantec has a wide range of Anti-Virus and Internet Security products
that are designed to protect users from viruses and other harmful
software. More information can be found on the Symantec site at
http://www.symantec.com/

II. DESCRIPTION

Local exploitation of a design error vulnerability in Symantec Corp.
AntiVirus can allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code with kernel
privileges.

The vulnerability specifically exists due to improper address space
validation when the NAVENG and NAVEX15 device drivers process IOCTL
0x222AD3, 0x222AD7, and 0x222ADB. An attacker can overwrite a user
supplied address, including code segments, with a constant double word
value by supplying a specially crafted Irp to the IOCTL handler
function.

III. ANALYSIS

Successful exploitation allows an attacker to obtain elevated privileges
by exploiting the kernel. This could allow the attacker to gain control
of the affected system. However, local access is required for
exploitation to be successful.

Note that since the attacker can only overwrite with a constant double-
word value, exploitation is not completely straight forward. However,
this does not significantly impact the difficulty of exploitation since
code segments can be overwritten within the kernel.

iDefense has assigned a MEDIUM severity due to the requirement for local
access and the ability to execute arbitrary code within the kernel.

IV. DETECTION

iDefense has confirmed the existence of this vulnerability within
version 10 of Symantec Client Security as of this writing. Previous
versions, as well as relating products, which contain the NAVENG.SYS and
NAVEX15.SYS drivers are suspected to be vulnerable as well.

V. WORKAROUND

iDefense is currently unaware of any effective workaround for this
issue.

VI. VENDOR RESPONSE

Symantec has released updated device drivers via LiveUpdate.  More
information regarding this issue can be found in Symantec's advisory,
SYM06-020.  You can find their advisory at the following link:

http://www.symantec.com/avcenter/security/Content/2006.10.05a.html

VII. CVE INFORMATION

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project has assigned the
name CVE-2006-4927 to this issue. This is a candidate for inclusion in
the CVE list (http://cve.mitre.org), which standardizes names for
security problems.

VIII. DISCLOSURE TIMELINE

09/19/2006  Initial vendor notification
09/19/2006  Initial vendor response
10/05/2006  Coordinated public disclosure

IX. CREDIT

This vulnerability was reported to iDefense by Rubén Santamarta of
reversemode.com.

Get paid for vulnerability research
http://www.idefense.com/methodology/vulnerability/vcp.php

Free tools, research and upcoming events
http://labs.idefense.com/

X. LEGAL NOTICES

Copyright © 2006 iDefense, Inc.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert
electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express
written consent of iDefense. If you wish to reprint the whole or any
part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically, please
email customerservice@...fense.com for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate
at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use
of the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS condition.
There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct, indirect,
or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or reliance on,
this information.


