
Date: Thu, 13 Mar 2008 15:57:34 -0500
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-08-011: IBM Informix Dynamic Server DBPATH Buffer Overflow
 Vulnerability

ZDI-08-011: IBM Informix Dynamic Server DBPATH Buffer Overflow 
Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-08-011
March 13, 2008

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2008-0727

-- Affected Vendors:
IBM

-- Affected Products:
IBM Informix

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 5723. 
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS, visit:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
systems with vulnerable installations of IBM's Informix Dynamic Server.
User interaction is not required to exploit this vulnerability.
Authentication is required in that an attacker must have database
connection priviliges.

The specific flaw exists in the oninit.exe process that listens by
default on TCP port 1526. During authentication, the process does not
validate the length of the DBPATH variable. An attacker can provide a
overly long variable name and overflow a global buffer, overwriting
function pointers leading to arbitrary code execution.

-- Vendor Response:
IBM has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:

http://www-1.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg1IC55208
http://www-1.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg1IC55207

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2007-11-07 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2008-03-13 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by:
    * Anonymous

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is
used. TippingPoint does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any
exploit code. Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor,
TippingPoint provides its customers with zero day protection through
its intrusion prevention technology. Explicit details regarding the
specifics of the vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until
an official vendor patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the
altruistic aim of helping to secure a broader user base, TippingPoint
provides this vulnerability information confidentially to security
vendors (including competitors) who have a vulnerability protection or
mitigation product.

Our vulnerability disclosure policy is available online at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/disclosure_policy/

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
