
Date: Mon, 4 May 2009 10:38:22 -0700
From: LayerOne Call For Papers <layeronecfp@...il.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: LayerOne 2009 - Final Announcement

LayerOne 2009
May 23-24
Anaheim Marriott
Anaheim, California
http://layerone.info

Well folks, LayerOne 2009 is happening in just a few weeks time. We
wanted to make one final announcement before we begin last minute
preparations for this years show.

The speaker line up is finalized. We have some familiar faces as well
as some new blood.

David Bryan - Hacking with GnuRadio
Don Ankney - Is XSS Solveable?
Jim O’Gorman - Policy - The Biscuit Game of Infosec
Datagram - Lockpicking Forensics
Kevin Nassery - Diplomatic Security Consulting
Erik Berls - Deploying DNSSEC
Joe McCray - Advanced SQL Injection
Strom Carlson - Why your mother will never care about Linux
Deviant Ollam - Packing and the Friendly Skies
CP, Adam, Frank^2, Vyrus - TwatFS: Surly abuse of social networking bandwidth
Ryan S. Upton, CISSP - Incident Response 101
Doug Cohen - Computation and Modeling

We're particularly excited about the new tool being debuted by the
DC949 folks, TwatFS. Like Twitter? Like the idea of distributed
storage? Well, you'll like this then. Hate Twitter? Like the idea of
it being used for something other than its intended purpose? Well,
you'll like this too.

Pre-registration will be closing May 15th. The pre-registration price
is still 100 dollars. Tickets will be available at the door for 120.00

The Anaheim Marriott has also been nice enough to expand our block of
99.00/night rooms.

Finally, we have some fun to announce. Deviant Ollam will be bringing
Gringo Warrior back to LayerOne. For those unfamiliar with it Gringo
Warrior is a scenario based lock picking context where you have to
bust out of a mock jail cell, overpower a guard, and pick your way to
freedom. Datagram will be setting up a lock picking village where you
can practice your skills and learn new ones. Datagram has been hard at
work finding new and more complex locks from all over the world. Do
not expect an easy time getting into some of these locks. Also, since
Monday is a holiday, the LayerOne after-party will be hosted at the
local 23b hackerspace on Sunday evening. For those that can't go to
Anaheim without going to Disneyland, you'll be happy to know that we
are roughly 2 blocks away from it in addition to all the other things
you can do in downtown Anaheim.

Huge thanks to our sponsors: ISN, Shmoocon, ASG, and Microsoft. Even
with the economy in the shape that it's in, it makes us happy to see
that there are still people and companies that are able to support the
community.

 -The LayerOne Team
