
Date: Tue, 26 Jul 2011 10:41:52 +0530
From: "Papers, Call For" <cfpt@...uritybyte.org>
To: oss-security@...ts.openwall.com
Subject: CFP SecurityByte India

Hi All,

The first round of speakers have been selected for Securitybyte, please
follow us on twitter @securitybyte to get the latest updates on speakers and
event.

Deral Heiland, From Printer to Owned: Leveraging Multifunction Printers
During Penetration Testing
Nithya Raman, Security threats on social networks
Alexander Polyakov, A Crushing Blow At the Heart of SAP J2EE Engine
Bishan Singh, Enabling Un-trusted Mashups
Krzysztof Kotowicz, HTML5: Something Wicked This Way Comes
John McColl, Hacking Corporate Telephony
Aseem Jakhar, Runtime thread injection and execution in Linux processes
George Nicolaou, Alternative Exploitation Vectors (A study of CVE-3333)
Michele Orru, Securing the Browser
Kanwal K. Mookhey, The Data Theft Epidemic in India
Vivek Ramachandran, Enterprise Wi-Fi Worms, Backdoors and Botnets for Fun
and Profit

The 2nd round of CFP is out

CFP/CTP

Securitybyte is proud to announce its Second Annual International
Information Security Conference, "Securitybyte 2011" in Bangalore, India.
This 4-day event features two days of conferences and two days of
post-conference hands-on Trainings & Certifications covering every aspect of
Information Security. The Securitybyte conference features some of the most
respected names in the Security space and is focused around new research and
innovation. The Securitybyte Conference 2011 is planned for Sept 6th through
9th, 2011 at The Taj Hotel in Bangalore, India.

The two-day conference (Sept 6th & 7th) will have the following three
tracks:

   Deep Technical
   Government & Governance
   Management

Submission Deadline: The first round of submission of papers for conference
talks and trainings should be done no later than August 5th, 2011. Please
send all your submissions to cfp@...uritybyte.org, keeping subject line as
"SB 2011 CFP Submission".

TOPICS

Got a new attack against any technology or device? We want to see it.

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to, the following:

Management Case studies around any of the topics above of how the
implementation was done and what were some of the lessons learned.

Technology-Focused

               Cloud Security
               Electronic Device Security (Cell Phones / PDA's)
               Defeating Biometrics
               WLAN, RFID and Bluetooth Security
               Data Recovery and Incident Response
               Virtualization Security
               Database Security
               Forensic & Cyber security Regulatory & Law
               Copyright infringement and anti-copyright infringement
               enforcement technologies
               Critical infrastructure issues
               Data security and privacy issues
               Identity theft, identity creation & identity fraud
               Corporate Espionage


National Security

              Cyber forensics
              Cyber warfare
              Cyber Espionage
              Next hyphenGen Cyber threats
              Critical Infrastructure protection
              Surveillance & counter-surveillance

Speaker Submission:

Please use the following submission form template to respond:

   Name, title, address, email, and phone/contact number
   Short biography, qualifications, occupation, achievements, and
   affiliations (limit 250 words.)
   Summary or abstract of your presentation (limit 1250 words.)
   Technical requirements (video, internet, wireless, audio, etc.)
   References (Contact name, title, and email address of two
   conferences you have spoken at or comparable references.)

**Please note, product or vendor pitches are not accepted. If your talk
involves an advertisement for a new product or service your company is
offering, please do not submit a proposal.


Regards
SecurityByte

