
Date: Sun, 27 Jan 2008 23:32:31 -0600
From: H D Moore <sflist@...italoffense.net>
To: BUGTRAQ <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: Metasploit Framework v3.1 Released

METASPLOIT UNLEASHES VERSION 3.1 OF THE METASPLOIT FRAMEWORK
                   New Version of Attack Framework Ready to Pwn

  Austin, Texas, January 28th, 2008 -- The Metasploit Project
announced today the free, world-wide availability of version 3.1 of
their exploit development and attack framework. The latest version
features a graphical user interface, full support for the Windows
platform, and over 450 modules, including 265 remote exploits. 

  "Metasploit 3.1 consolidates a year of research and development,
integrating ideas and code from some of the sharpest and most innovative
folks in the security research community" said H D Moore, project
manager. Moore is referring the numerous research projects that have
lent code to the framework.

  These projects include the METASM pure-ruby assembler developed by
Yoann Guillot and Julien Tinnes, the "Hacking the iPhone" effort
outlined in the Metasploit Blog, the Windows kernel-land payload
staging system developed by Matt Miller, the heapLib browser
exploitation library written by Alexander Sotirov, the Lorcon 802.11
raw transmit library created by Joshua Wright and Mike Kershaw, Scruby,
the Ruby port of Philippe Biondi's Scapy project, developed by Sylvain
Sarmejeanne, and a contextual encoding system for Metasploit payloads.
"Contextual encoding breaks most forms of shellcode analysis by
encoding a payload with a target-specific key" said I)ruid, author of
the Uninformed Journal (volume 9) article and developer of the
contextual encoding system included with Metasploit 3.1.  

  The graphical user interface is a major step forward for Metasploit
users on the Windows platform. Development of this interface was driven
by Fabrice Mourron and provides a wizard-based exploitation system, a
graphical file and process browser for the Meterpreter payloads, and a
multi-tab console interface. "The Metasploit GUI puts Windows users on
the same footing as those running Unix by giving them access to a 
console interface to the framework" said H D Moore, who worked with
Fabrice on the GUI project. 

  The latest incarnation of the framework includes a bristling
arsenal of exploit modules that are sure to put a smile on the face of
every information warrior. Notable exploits in the 3.1 release include
a remote, unpatched kernel-land exploit for Novell Netware, written by
toto, a series of 802.11 fuzzing modules that can spray the local
airspace with malformed frames, taking out a wide swath of
wireless-enabled devices, and a battery of exploits targeted at
Borland's InterBase product line. "I found so many holes that I just
gave up releasing all of them", said Ramon de Carvalho, founder of RISE
Security, and Metasploit contributor. 

  "Metasploit continues to be an indispensable and reliable penetration
testing framework for our modern era", says C. Wilson, a security
engineer who uses Metasploit in his daily work. Metasploit is used by
network security professionals to perform penetration tests, system
administrators to verify patch installations, product vendors to
perform regression testing, and  security researchers world-wide. The
framework is written in the Ruby  programming language and includes
components written in C and assembler.

  Metasploit runs on all modern operating systems, including Linux,
Windows, Mac OS X, and most flavors of BSD. Metasploit has been used
on a wide range of hardware platforms, from massive Unix mainframes to
the tiny Nokia n800 handheld. Users can access Metasploit using the
tab-completing console interface, the Gtk GUI, the command line scripting 
interface, or the AJAX-enabled web interface. The Windows version of
Metasploit includes all software dependencies and a selection of useful
networking tools. 

  The latest version of the Metasploit Framework, as well as screen
shots, video demonstrations, documentation and installation
instructions for many platforms, can be found online at

http://metasploit3.com/

                              # # #
								   
If you'd like more information about this topic, or to schedule an
interview with the developers, please email msfdev[at]metasploit.com
