
Date: Tue,  4 Apr 2006 09:58:27 +0000 (UTC)
From: cfp@...con.org.au
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: RUXCON 2006 Call for Papers



RUXCON 2006 CALL FOR PAPERS

RuxCon would like to announce the call for papers for the fourth annual
RuxCon conference.

This year the conference will commence during the 30th of September and the
1st of October, over the long weekend.

As with previous years, RuxCon will be held at the University of Technology,
Sydney, Australia.

The deadline for submissions is the 31st of August.

* What is RuxCon?

  RuxCon strives to be Australia's most technical and interesting
  computer security conference. We're back for the fourth year running 
  and intend on bringing you another high quality conference.
 
  The conference is held over two days in a relaxed atmosphere,
  allowing attendees to enjoy themselves whilst expanding their 
  knowledge of security.

  Live presentations and activities will cover a full range of
  defensive and offensive security topics, varying from unpublished
  research to required reading for the public security community.

  For more information, please visit http://www.ruxcon.org.au

* Presentation Information

  Presentations are set to run for 50 minutes, and will be of a formal
  nature, with slides and a speech.

* Presentation Submissions

  RuxCon would like to invite people who are interested in security to
  submit a presentation.
  
  Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

	o Code analysis
	o Exploitation techniques
	o Network scanning and analysis
	o Cryptography
	o Malware Analysis
	o Reverse engineering
	o Forensics and Anti-forensics
	o Social engineering
	o Web application security
	o Legal aspects of computer security and surrounding issues
	o Law enforcement activities
	o Telecommunications security (mobile, GSM, fraud issues, etc.)

  Submissions should thoroughly outline your desired presentation or
  workshop subject. Accompanying your submission should be the slides
  you intend to use or a detailed paper explaining your subject.

  If you have any enquiries about submissions, or would like to make a
  submission, please send an e-mail to presentations@...con.org.au.
  The deadline for submissions is the 31st of August.

  If approved we will additionally require:

	i.  A brief personal biography (between 2-5 paragraphs in length),
	    including: skill set, experience, and credentials.

	ii. A description on your presentation or workshop (between 2-5
	    paragraphs in length).

* Contact Details

	Presentation Submissions:       presentations@...con.org.au
	General Enquiries:              ruxcon@...con.org.au




