
Date: Tue, 7 Aug 2012 17:41:45 +0530
From: nullcon <nullcon@...lcon.net>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: nullcon International security conference Delhi 2012 Highlights

Hi All,

We at nullcon feel proud to be at the forefront of the IT Security arena in
the Asian IT Industry. With the fourth event in the row, we continue to
deliver the latest information and research on technical, strategic and
business aspects of information security which helps organizations take
proactive and protective measures to safeguard their critical data and
assets.

nullcon Delhi is being held on 26 - 29 Sept 2012 at The Leela Kempinski,
Gurgoan.

Highlights
1. Day one keynote by CEO Natgrid,Mr. Raghu Raman. Talk Title:  Battle of
the Minds
2. Day two keynote by Global Security Evangelist and renowned speaker. Mr.
Richard Thieme. Talk Title: Staring into the Abyss.
3. Security Conclave on Critical Infrastructure Protection:  Focused Panel
discussion of 90 minutes with participation from Govt. and corporate. Expert
panelists from PSUs (Public Sector Undertaking) and large private
organizations to create the road map for the protection standard and
processes. This year's theme is Critical Infrastructure Protection and will
be focused on organizations managing and developing critical infrastructure
and organizations offering solutions and risk consulting on the same.
4. Executive Briefing: Exclusive two hours sub-event for senior management
and the CIO’s to present summarized content of conference talks/events.
5. Prototype sub-event:  An excellent opportunity/platform for organization
to speak/showcase/present (30 Min Talk) new innovative security technologies
to the conference attendees to attract industry recognition and to promote
their brand.
6. 20+ Exhibitors from security industry.
7. 20+ presentations by security experts on ground breaking defensive and
offensive security technologies.
8. Seven security Training by industry experts on deep technical and
critical security subjects.
9. Null Job fair for hiring the best in the security industry.
10. Attendees from varied Industry verticals.
11. Supported by Microsoft (MSRC USA), Praxeva, SANS and Hacker5.
12. Some of the exhibitors include WatchGuard, Symantec, Microsoft, Praxeva,
SANS, JNR, Search Lab, Innobuzz, ACPL, LFY, Payatu.

nullcon Delhi is a must attend for all those who share an interest in IT
security. It is our endeavor to be continually delivering the best in IT
Security. For more details please visit http://nullcon.net.

Regards
null Team
