
Date: Wed, 30 Jan 2013 16:25:15 +0100
From: Walter Belgers <walter+bugtraq@...gers.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: CFP Observe. Hack. Make.

OHM2013 Call for Participation
==============================

July 31 to August 4, 2013 - Geestmerambacht, The Netherlands

See https://gis.ohm2013.org, http://osm.org/go/0E59AxSEh- or
http://goo.gl/maps/8SmBU

PLEASE CIRCULATE FREELY:

About OHM2013
-------------

OHM2013 - Observe. Hack. Make. is a 5-day international outdoor technology and
security conference. OHM2013 is currently requesting proposals for content.

A motley bunch of around 3000 hackers, free-thinkers, philosophers, activists,
geeks, scientists, artists, creative minds and others will convene from all
over the world for this informal meeting of minds to contemplate, reflect,
share, criticize, look ahead, code, build, and more.

An otherwise unassuming stretch of land, just 30km (20mi) North of Amsterdam,
will be transformed into a colourful oasis of light providing a backdrop for
this unique event. It is an immersive experience, with an emphasis on
interaction.

The four-yearly Dutch hacker camps provide a very open, friendly and relaxed
atmosphere, with a high level of knowledge. The campsite is buzzing with
energy, ideas and projects, not least because people from various backgrounds
are interacting. It is a non-commercial community event where every visitor is
also a volunteer.

Background
----------

OHM 2013 is the 7th edition in this line of events. The seed for these events
sprouted in the late 80's hacker community embodied by 'Hippies from Hell' and
the journal for techno-anarchists 'Hack-tic'.

In 1989 the Galactic Hacker Party was held at Paradiso, a public forum in
Amsterdam. This indoor event brought together pioneers at the frontiers of the
internet to revel in the upcoming revolution, but also to be critical of the
power structures governing the then infant internet and its impact on society.

In 1993, four years later, Hacking at the End of the Universe was the first
open-air event in the series. Several hundred hackers set up camp in the
outdoors. While the internet was still not something many people had at home,
the whole campsite was already connected.

The landscape has changed much since 1989. New trends raise questions of
security, governance, sustainability and identity. The notion of hacking (to
use something in a creative way, not thought of when it was first invented)
has long spread to fields outside of Information Technology. The concepts of
open source and open standards are now commonplace.

At the same time, society is more and more dependent on technology. Blind faith
in ICT in particular leads to erosion of democratic principles and human
rights. Society increasingly depends on hackers to act as its conscience on
these matters.

Now nearly every household has a connection to the internet, it is also
becoming a conduit for click-to-manufacture designs. Hackers expand their focus
towards "manufacturing at home" collaboration projects using home-built 3D
printers, CNC-machines and laser cutters. A necessity as current economic
models are collapsing, both on the macro as well as the micro scale. The
post-industrial global society is on the verge of depleting both its financial
capital as well as its natural resources. Logistic chains feeding the factories
that produce all our gadgets and even our food span multiple continents.
Despite the global scale, those chains are fragile. When energy is becoming
sparse, the global transport routes will fail to be economically feasible.

Hackers can apply their critical curiosity and creativity to bring about
methods to cope with the upcoming changes. By building, for example, resilient
means of electronic communication to ease the transition to an era where cheap
Chinese gadgets and Japanese electronics can no longer be taken for granted and
by arming society against authorities taking mobile telephony and the internet
offline in times of crisis. But perhaps even more important is going back to
the basics of production itself. Traditional crafts may become a matter of
survival when factories sourcing raw materials from far away are a thing of the
past.

Content matter(s)
-----------------

The scope of this call for participation is not limited to the form of
traditional lectures. Specifically requested are workshops (either bound in
time or continuously running), presentations / demonstrations, films,
performances engaging the audience and even art installations.

Topics may include, but are certainly not limited to the following fields:

- Security Attacks: Malware, A.P.T., SCADA, Mobile Security, Social Engineering,
Russian Cyber Crime, etc.  

- Defense: (Post-) (Quantum) Crypto, Responsible Disclosure, Emergency Response,
Warfare in the Virtual Domain, etc.  

- Hardware: Hacking, Making, Electronics, Welding, Blacksmithing, gnireenignE
esreveR, Lock Picking, A/V hacking, etc.  

- Software: Programming, Neural Networks / A.I., Standards, F.O.S.S., Browser
hacking, Demo's, etc.  

- Networks / Telecommunication: Internet, Alternative networks, GSM, Cloud
Hacking, Journalism, Radio/TV/Media, Big Data, Quantum entanglement &
teleportation, etc.  

- Privacy: T.O.R., Darknets, Certificate Authorities, Alternative Identities,
Post Privacy, etc.  

- Legal: Hacker Ethics, Forensics, Law Enforcement, D.R.M., Software Patents,
etc.  

- Science / Research: DIY Space Flight, Bio-tech, DNA, Energy, Particle Physics,
Sustainability, Nano-technology, Bionics, Robots, Swarms, Exo-skeletons,
Quantum computing, etc.  

- People & Society: Censorship, Politics, Future Visions, New Economic & Monetary
Models, Life Hacking, Fair Globalization, Communities/Hackerspaces, Psychology,
Mental Disorders, Ethical Norms, Trans-humanism, Body Hacking, Mind Reading
Hardware, etc.  

- Rebooting civilization: Preserving (Technological) Knowledge, Artisan Crafts,
Decentralised Technologies for food/energy/housing/security, Practical
Steampunk, etc.  

- Art: Topology, Folding, Fractals, Demo Scene, Wearable Electronics, Circuit
Bending, Video Art, Pyrotechnics, etc.  

- Phun: Food Hacking, Car Hacking, Meditation, Medication, Art, Anecdotes, Retro
Gaming, Entertainment, etc.

Again, these ideas are by no means restrictive. Any content that might interest
the audience of technophiles at OHM2013 is welcome. Surprise and inspire the
world!

Content for kids
----------------

At previous events, activities for children were organised by parents on an
ad-hoc basis - OHM2013 strives to bring content specifically aimed at children
and adolescents. Initiatives targeting this new generation of hackers are
encouraged. Not only 'hacky' crafts and games, but also introductions to more
advanced topics, like the complexities of the internet, privacy, programming,
security, et cetera are to be expected.

Submitting content
------------------

Help make OHM2013 become the exciting, inspiring and awesome community-driven
event everyone is looking forward to. Submit your content now!

Also, if you know of someone whom you think should be present at OHM2013, ask
them to submit an abstract.

Submissions can be entered through the OHM2013 content submission website:
https://cfp.ohm2013.org/

 

The deadline for submissions is March 1, 2013.

All proposals will be reviewed. Notification of acceptance or rejection will be
sent out before April 30, 2013.

The program will be made available incrementally starting May 1, 2013.


