
Date: Tue, 20 Sep 2005 18:07:22 -0700
From: Jeff Moss <jmoss@...ckhat.com>
To: "bugtraq-securityfocus.com" <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: Upcoming Black Hat events announcement


Dear BugTraq readers,

I want to keep you up to date with what Black Hat is up to. Currently there is a stand alone training in Seattle 
in October, a Briefings in Tokyo in October, and a Federal Training and Briefings in Crystal City in January. Black 
Hat returns to Amsterdam at the end February with expanded training and briefings. The CFP for Amsterdam will 
open by October 15th.

Video from the summer USA show is starting to get encoded, and we will be updating the Black Hat "Black Pages" 
in the coming weeks to reflect what happened, and still is happening, with the whole ISS/Cisco drama.

Thank you.

Jeff Moss

--------------

Seattle Training

On October 10-11, Black Hat will host four separate world-class trainings.  
The classes cover a variety of topics, including system administration, auditing and assessment, forensics, and 
infrastructure VoIP.

Most of the class offerings are newly created or revised, ensuring that students are provided with up-to-date 
technical information.  Our trainers are recognized leaders in their fields, with real-world experience that drives 
their curriculum.  

As with all Black Hat Training events, students are eligible for CISSP/SCCP credits upon successful completion.

Courses offered are:
•	Hacking by Numbers - Bootcamp Edition by SensePost
•	Microsoft Ninjitsu by Tim Mullen 
•	Invisible Network; Invisible Risk by Adam Laurie
•	Infrastructure Attacktecs™ & Defentecs™: Cisco Voice Over IP (VoIP) by Stephen Dugan

For more information: http://www.blackhat.com/html/training-seattle-05/train-bh-sea-05-index.html 

Our early bird registration rate is in effect until October 1.
Register now and save: https://commerce.blackhat.com/seattle-reg

----------------

Tokyo, Keio Plaza Hotel * 17-18 October 2005 * japan.blackhat.com

Black Hat is honored to continue its partnership with Internet Association Japan to bring the second annual Black 
Hat Briefings Japan.

The Black Hat Japan 2005 Briefings will take place at the Keio Plaza Hotel, October 17-18.  The Black Hat Japan 
Briefings feature an international line up of internationally renowned security experts from around the globe.
Black Hat Briefings was originally founded in 1997 by Jeff Moss to fill the need of computer security professionals 
to better understand the security risks to their computers and information infrastructures by potential threats. To 
do this, the Black Hat Briefings assembles a group of vendor neutral security professionals and let them speak 
candidly about the problems businesses face, and the solutions they see to those problems. No gimmicks, no sales 
pitches, just straight talk by people who make it their business to explore the ever-changing security space.

This year's conference will include talks by Dan Kaminsky on the Black Ops of TCP/IP, David Maynor and  Robert Graham 
presenting on Architecture Flaws in Common Security Tools, the Grugq discussing VOIP security issues, Chris Hurley - 
Identifying and Responding to Wireless Attacks,  Jeremiah Grossman presenting on Phishing with Super Bait, Saumil 
Shah and David Cole collaborating on an Adware/Spyware talk.  Attendees will get the rare chance to meet with these 
and other experts up close and to ask specific questions about their findings, encouraging the quality exchange of 
information among the international attendees.  For more information on the speakers and speeches visit 
http://www.blackhat.com/html/bh-japan-05/bh-jp-05-en-speakers.html

Take advantage of our early registration rates by registering on-line now. http://www.blackhat.com/html/bh-
registration/bh-registration.html#Japan



