
Date: Thu, 20 Nov 2008 16:29:10 -0600
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-08-075: EMC Control Center SAN Manager Master SST_CTGTRANS Overflow
 Vulnerability

ZDI-08-075: EMC Control Center SAN Manager Master SST_CTGTRANS Overflow 
Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-08-075
November 20, 2008

-- Affected Vendors:
EMC

-- Affected Products:
EMC ControlCenter SAN Manager



-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
systems with vulnerable installations of EMC Control Center SAN Manager.
Authentication is not required to exploit this vulnerability.

The specific flaw exists in the SAN Manager Master Agent service
(msragent.exe) which listens by default on TCP port 10444. While
processing SST_CTGTRANS requests the process copies packet data into a
fixed length stack buffer. Exploitation allows for arbitrary code
execution under the context of the SYSTEM user.

-- Vendor Response:
EMC states:
For ControlCenter 5.2 SP5 Software navigate in Powerink to the following
location:
Support > Software Downloads and Licensing > Downloads C > ControlCenter
v 5.x > 5.2 SP5 Patch 4433
For ControlCenter 6.0 Software navigate in Powerlink to the following
location:
Support > Software Downloads and Licensing > Downloads C > ControlCenter
v 6.x > 6.0 Patch 4434

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2008-09-23 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2008-11-20 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by:
    * Anonymous

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is
used. TippingPoint does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any
exploit code. Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor,
TippingPoint provides its customers with zero day protection through
its intrusion prevention technology. Explicit details regarding the
specifics of the vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until
an official vendor patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the
altruistic aim of helping to secure a broader user base, TippingPoint
provides this vulnerability information confidentially to security
vendors (including competitors) who have a vulnerability protection or
mitigation product.

Our vulnerability disclosure policy is available online at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/disclosure_policy/

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
