
Date: Tue, 26 Sep 2006 13:41:37 +1000
From: cfp@...con.org.au
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Ruxcon 2006

Hi,

RUXCON 2006 will be held this weekend over the 30th of September to the 1st of October at the University of Technology, Sydney. Doors will open at 8:30am and the first presentation commences at 9:30am. 

Our presentation list is complete.

RUXCON 2006 Presentations [1]:

 1. Java Class Deobfuscation - Chris Mitchell 
 2. Mechanics of the Objective-C Trifecta - Reversing, Runtime Antics, & Exploit Development - Neil Archibald
 3. Exploiting OpenBSD - Ben Hawkes 
 4. Anti-Forensic Rootkits - Darren Bilby 
 5. Access over Ethernet: Insecurites in AoE - Morgan Marquis-Boire 
 6. Attacks Against RFID - Josh Perrymon 
 7. Unusual Bugs - Ilja van Sprundel 
 8. A Quantitive Time Series Analysis of Malware and Vulnerability Trends - Craig Wright 
 9. IPv6: Under the Hood - Mark Dowd 
10. Software Vulnerabilities - Daniel Hodson 
11. PE Packers Used in Malicious Software - Paul Craig 
12. Web Services: Teaching a New Dog Old Tricks - Daniel Grzelak, Colin Wong 
13. Bypassing Corporate Email Filtering - Simon Howard 
14. Hit By A Bus: Physical Access Attacks with Firewire - Adam Boileau 
15. Metafuzz: Building Boring Fuzzers Faster, Using Metadata - Ben Nagy 
16. Dynamic Port Scanning - AR, HK 
17. The Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) - Christian Heinrich 
18. Ajax Security - Andrew van der Stock

As in previous years, there will be activities and competitions, which allow attendees to have fun, win prizes, and socialise, all while enjoying a cold beer on an Australian summers day. 

Some activities which will be held during the conference include:

  * Capture the flag competition
  * Exploit development competition
  * Chilli eatoff competition

This will be the fourth year in a row in which we've brought a quality conference to the Australian computer security community.

Hope to see you there,

Regards,

RUXCON Staff
http://www.ruxcon.org.au

[1] http://www.ruxcon.org.au/presentations.shtml
