
Date: Wed, 26 Jun 2013 18:24:18 +0200
From: Adnan Ahmad <ahmad.adnan@...il.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Security focus, we need your help

List,

First off, I would like to say that this is not an attempt to spam the
list as I thought this is very relevant to this list and I would love
to get some response from security professionals around the world
about our project and also invite several companies represented on
this list to join & help us stress-test, find issues with the software
and try obviously try to break it, so we can fix it :)

Keeping this in mind we thought this was the best place to start as
the best security & IT professionals are represented on this list!

Isidro Larrubia (isidro@...onify.com) and myself have started a
croundfunding project in light of recent "security" and "privacy"
related events in the media recently.

Our goal is to restore basic privacy for end-users.

Adnonify - Take back your privacy

Adnonify is a simple plug & play network device that will enable you
to anonimize your surfing behavior  avoid you being tracked by
media/advertising companies and remove all intrusive advertising
without any changes to your computer or network configuration.

We decided to launch this project to contribute something back to the
community which will enable people without the technical know-how to
access information freely and without any government control,
filtering, censorship, tracking and intrusive advertising.

We have been working on the sofware full-time for several weeks now
and its currently being tested, debugged and improved. Powering the
Adnonify will be a custom-written Peer-2-Peer decentralized, encrypted
VPN software to hide your location, block advertising and trackers.
The VPN network will run on standard HTTPS on port 443 making the
traffic indistinguishable from standard HTTPS websites like your bank
or email account making it impossible for ISP's to block or tamper or
throttle the Adnonify traffic. The Adnonify will allow you to chose
the country or jurisdiction where your traffic/connection is
terminated onto the internet, allowing you to bypass
government/geographic restrictions and hide your location.

I hereby invite you, security professionals, that would like to help
us and get involved. The goal will be to find issues and make the
system as secure as possible. You can contact us using the methods
below!

Your input is important to us! If this information is not relevant to
you, I hereby profoundly appologize on behalf our team for bothering
you with this e-mail.

You can contact us using the following methods:

Email: info@...onify.com
Indiegogo campaign with the full information (for your generous
contributions, comments,...): http://igg.me/at/adnonify
Website: http://www.adnonify.com
