
Date: Wed, 1 Sep 2004 13:25:49 -0500
From: Sym Security <secure@...antec.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: RE: Security Center and Windows XP clients in domain, 20040831062712.31317.qmail@....securityfocus.com


------------------

On 80312004, albatross posted the following:

>From the Symantec site:

>Q: Which Symantec products will the product update apply to? 
>A: The product update applies to customers who use Symantec Client
>Security, Symantec AntiVirus Corporate Edition, and Symantec AntiVirus 
Enterprise Edition if 
>their client systems are not members of a Windows domain. This is because
>Windows XP Service Pack 2 does not enable the Windows Security Center or 
the 
>Windows Firewall if it detects that the computer is a member of a Windows 
domain. It also 
>applies to administrators who choose to enable the Windows Security 
Client in a 
>domain.
>Product updates for other Symantec products may be released in the future
>but none are scheduled at this time. 
 
>As stated in the answer if a windows XP client is joining a Domain SP2 
>won't enable neither the Security Center and Firewall. Does somebody have 
any mor 
>information about this?

>albatross

----------------------------------------------

Symantec appreciates you pointing this mistype on the web FAQ out to us, 
the Windows 
Firewall should not have been included as a part of this answer.    The 
correction
has been made to the posted page and should read as follows:

Q: Which Symantec products will the product update apply to? 

A: The product update applies to customers who use Symantec Client 
Security, Symantec AntiVirus Corporate Edition, and Symantec AntiVirus 
Enterprise Edition if their client systems are not members of a Windows 
domain. This is because Windows XP Service Pack 2 does not enable the 
Windows Security Center if it detects that the computer is a member of a 
Windows domain. It also applies to administrators who choose to enable the 

Windows Security Client in a domain. Product updates for other Symantec 
products may be released in the future but none are scheduled at this 
time. 

Symantec apologizes for any confusion this may have caused.

Symantec Product Security Team








