
Date: Tue, 31 Aug 2004 20:09:01 -0400
From: "David Webster" <dwebster@...tig.com>
To: <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: RE: Security Center and Windows XP clients in domain


I just installed WINXP SP2 on my laptop which is already a member of a
WIN2003 domain, and post install it had these settings.  1)security
center was enabled 2)the Windows Firewall was set to ON (recommended) on
all three interfaces (LAN, WAN, Cisco VPN adapter).  I am running
version 8.00.9374 of Symantec antivirus corporate edition on the laptop.
The Security Center control panel applet does not display any
information about the installed antivirus software.

Contrast this with my home XP Pro machine, which is NOT a member of a
domain.  The Security Center Control Panel applet on that machine
displays information about the installed AV software, AVG antivirus.
Also, that machine runs Zone Alarm personal firewall.  This is detected
by the Security Center Control Panel applet, and the windows firewall is
NOT activated.

I have not tried joining a machine with SP2 already installed to a
domain to see what happens to the settings in Security Center.

Hope this helps.

--David
-----Original Message-----
From: albatross@....it [mailto:albatross@....it] 
Sent: Tuesday, August 31, 2004 2:27 AM
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Security Center and Windows XP clients in domain



 

>From the Symantec site:



Q: Which Symantec products will the product update apply to? 

A: The product update applies to customers who use Symantec Client
Security, Symantec AntiVirus Corporate Edition, and Symantec AntiVirus
Enterprise Edition if their client systems are not members of a Windows
domain. This is because Windows XP Service Pack 2 does not enable the
Windows Security Center or the Windows Firewall if it detects that the
computer is a member of a Windows domain. It also applies to
administrators who choose to enable the Windows Security Client in a
domain. Product updates for other Symantec products may be released in
the future but none are scheduled at this time. 

  

As stated in the answer if a windows XP client is joining a Domain SP2
won't enable neither the Security Center and Firewall. Does somebody
have any mor information about this?



albatross


