
Date: Tue, 25 Jul 2006 16:03:43 -0700
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: ZDI-06-023: eIQNetworks Enterprise Security Analyzer Syslog Server Buffer
 Overflow Vulnerability

ZDI-06-023: eIQnetworks Enterprise Security Analyzer Syslog Server Buffer 
Overflow Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-06-023.html
July 25, 2006

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2006-3838

-- Affected Vendor:
eIQnetworks

-- Affected Products:
eIQnetworks Enterprise Security Analyzer
Astaro Report Manager (OEM)
Fortinet FortiReporter (OEM)
iPolicy Security Reporter (OEM)
SanMina Viking Multi-Log Manager (OEM)
Secure Computing G2 Security Reporter (OEM)
Top Layer Network Security Analyzer (OEM)

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since  by Digital Vaccine protection
filter ID N/A. For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of eIQnetworks Enterprise Security Analyzer.
Authentication is not required to exploit this vulnerability.

The specific flaw exists within the Syslog daemon, syslogserver.exe,
during the processing of long strings transmitted to the listening TCP
port. The vulnerability is not exposed over UDP. The default
configuration does not expose the open TCP port.

-- Vendor Response:
eIQnetworks has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:

 
http://www.eiqnetworks.com/products/enterprisesecurity/EnterpriseSecurityAnalyzer/ESA_2.5.0_Release_Notes.pdf

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2006.05.10 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
 - Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint customers
2006.07.25 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by Titon, JxT, KF and the rest of 
Bastard Labs.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.
