
Date: Thu, 7 Oct 2010 18:11:01 +0100
From: Carlos Serrão <carlos.j.serrao@...il.com>
To: binaryanalysis@...urityfocus.com, crypto@...urityfocus.com,
	forensics@...urityfocus.com, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com,
	pen-test@...urityfocus.com, securityjobs@...urityfocus.com,
	secprog@...urityfocus.com, secpapers@...urityfocus.com,
	webappsec@...urityfocus.com, security-basics@...urityfocus.com
Subject: IBWAS'10 CfP - Deadline Extension

Dear all,
the deadline for submitting papers for IBWAS'10 has been extended.

Please advertise this.
(sorry for the span and for receiving multiple copies of this)

Best regards,


2nd. OWASP Ibero-American Web-Applications Security conference 2010 (IBWAS’10)
ISCTE – Lisbon University Institute
25th – 26th November 2010
Lisboa, Portugal
http://www.ibwas.com

Call for Papers

Introduction
There is a change in the information systems development paradigm. The emergence of Web 2.0 technologies led to the extensive deployment and use of web-based applications and web services as a way to developed new and flexible information systems. Such systems are easy to develop, deploy and maintain and demonstrate impressive features for users, resulting in their current wide use. 
As a result of this paradigm shift, the security requirements have also changed. These web-based information systems have different security requirements, when compared to traditional systems. Important security issues have been found and privacy concerns have also been raised recently. In addition, the emerging Cloud Computing paradigm promises even greater flexibility; however corresponding security and privacy issues still need to be examined. The security environment should involve not only the surrounding environment but also the application core.
This conference aims to bring together application security experts, researchers, educators and practitioners from the industry, academia and international communities such as OWASP, in order to discuss open problems and new solutions in application security. In the context of this track academic researchers will be able to combine interesting results with the experience of practitioners and software engineers.

Conference Topics
Suggested topics for papers submission include (but are not limited to):
• Secure application development
• Security of service oriented architectures
• Security of development frameworks
• Threat modelling of web applications
• Cloud computing security
• Web applications vulnerabilities and analysis (code review, pen-test, static analysis etc.)
• Metrics for application security
• Countermeasures for web application vulnerabilities
• Secure coding techniques
• Platform or language security features that help secure web applications
• Secure database usage in web applications
• Access control in web applications
• Web services security
• Browser security
• Privacy in web applications
• Standards, certifications and security evaluation criteria for web applications
• Application security awareness and education
• Security for the mobile web
• Attacks and Vulnerability Exploitation

Paper Submission Instructions
Authors should submit an original paper in English, carefully checked for correct grammar and spelling, using the on-line submission procedure (http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=ibwas10). Please check the paper formats so you may be aware of the accepted paper page limits (12 pages, in accordance to a supplied template: ftp://ftp.springer.de/pub/tex/latex/llncs/word/LNCS-Office2007.zip). 
The guidelines for paper formatting provided at the conference web site must be strictly used for all submitted papers. The submission format is the same as the camera-ready format. Please check and carefully follow the instructions and templates provided. 
Each paper should clearly indicate the nature of its technical/scientific contribution, and the problems, domains or environments to which it is applicable. 
Papers that are out of the conference scope or contain any form of plagiarism will be rejected without reviews. 
Remarks about the on-line submission procedure:
1. A "double-blind" paper evaluation method will be used. To facilitate that, the authors are kindly requested to produce and provide the paper, WITHOUT any reference to any of the authors. This means that is necessary to remove the author’s personal details, the acknowledgements section and any reference that may disclose the authors identity
2. Papers in ODF, PDF, DOC, DOCX or RTF format are accepted 
3. The web submission procedure automatically sends an acknowledgement, by e-mail, to the contact author. 

Paper submission types

Regular Paper Submission
A regular paper presents a work where the research is completed or almost finished. It does not necessary means that the acceptance is as a full paper. It may be accepted as a "full paper" (30 min. oral presentation), a "short paper" (15 min. oral presentation) or a "poster". 
Position Paper Submission
A position paper presents an arguable opinion about an issue. The goal of a position paper is to convince the audience that your opinion is valid and worth listening to, without the need to present completed research work and/or validated results. It is, nevertheless, important to support your argument with evidence to ensure the validity of your claims. A position paper may be a short report and discussion of ideas, facts, situations, methods, procedures or results of scientific research (bibliographic, experimental, theoretical, or other) focused on one of the conference topic areas. The acceptance of a position paper is restricted to the categories of "short paper" or "poster", i.e. a position paper is not a candidate to acceptance as "full paper". 

Camera-ready
After the reviewing process is completed, the contact author (the author who submits the paper) of each paper will be notified of the result, by e-mail. The authors are required to follow the reviews in order to improve their paper before the camera-ready submission. 

Publications
All accepted papers will be published in the conference proceedings, under an ISBN reference. Conference proceedings will be published by Springer in the Communications in Computer and Information Science (CCIS) series.

Web-site
http://www.ibwas.com

Secretariat
E-mail: secretariat@...as.com

Important Dates
Submission of papers and all other contributions due: 31st October 2010
Notification of acceptance: 7th November 2010
Camera-ready version of accepted contributions: 14th November 2010
Conference: 25th – 26th November 2010

Conference Chairs
Vicente Aguilera Días, Internet Security Auditors, OWASP Spain, Spain
Carlos Serrão, ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitário de Lisboa, OWASP Portugal, Portugal

Organization Committee
Fabio Cerullo, OWASP Global Education Committee, Ireland
Dinis Cruz, OWASP Board Member, UK
Paulo Coimbra, OWASP Project Manager, UK
Miguel Correia, Universidade de Lisboa, Portugal
Paulo Sousa, Universidade de Lisboa, Portugal
Lucas C. Ferreira, Câmara dos Deputados, Brasil
Arturo Busleiman, OWASP Argentina, Argentina
Martin Tartarelli, OWASP Argentina, Argentina
Paulo Querido, Portugal

Conference Program Committee
André Zúquete, Universidade De Aveiro, Portugal
Candelaria Hernández-Goya, Universidad De La Laguna, Spain
Carlos Costa, Universidade De Aveiro, Portugal
Carlos Ribeiro, Instituto Superior Técnico, Portugal
Eduardo Neves, OWASP Education Committee, OWASP Brazil, Brazil
Francesc Rovirosa i Raduà, Universitat Oberta de Catalunya (UOC), Spain
Gonzalo Álvarez Marañón, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), Spain
Isaac Agudo, University of Malaga, Spain
Jaime Delgado, Universitat Politecnica De Catalunya, Spain
Javier Hernando, Universitat Politecnica De Catalunya, Spain
Javier Rodríguez Saeta, Herta Security, Spain
Joaquim Castro Ferreira, Universidade de Aveiro, Portugal
Joaquim Marques, Instituto Politécnico de Castelo Branco, Portugal
Jorge Dávila Muro, Universidad Politécnica de Madrid (UPM), Spain
Jorge E. López de Vergara, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Spain
José Carlos Metrôlho, Instituto Politécnico de Castelo Branco, Portugal
José Luis Oliveira, Universidade De Aveiro, Portugal
Kuai Hinojosa, OWASP Global Education Committee, New York University, United States
Leonardo Chiariglione, Cedeo, Italy
Leonardo Lemes, Unisinos, Brasil
Manuel Sequeira, ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitário de Lisboa, Portugal
Marco Vieira, Universidade de Coimbra, Portugal
Mariemma I. Yagüe, University of Málaga, Spain
Miguel Correia, Universidade de Lisboa, Portugal
Miguel Dias, Microsoft, Portugal
Nuno Neves, Universidade de Lisboa, Portugal
Osvaldo Santos, Instituto Politécnico de Castelo Branco, Portugal
Panos Kudumakis, Queen Mary University of London, United Kingdom
Paulo Sousa, Universidade de Lisboa, Portugal
Rodrigo Roman, University of Malaga, Spain
Rui Cruz, Instituto Superior Técnico, Portugal
Rui Marinheiro, ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitário de Lisboa, Portugal
Sérgio Lopes, Universidade do Minho, Portugal
Tiejun Huang, Pekin University, China
Víctor Villagrá, Universidad Politécnica de Madrid (UPM), Spain
Vitor Filipe, Universidade de Trás-os-Montes e Alto Douro, Portugal
Vitor Santos, Microsoft, Portugal
Vitor Torres, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain
Wagner Elias, OWASP Brazil Chapter Leader, Brazil



--
Carlos Serrão
ISCTE-IUL/ISTA/DCTI | ADETTI-IUL/NetMuST | PT.OWASP


