
Date: Mon, 03 Mar 2008 16:10:11 -0500
From: Seth Fogie <seth@...scanner.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Airscanner Mobile Security Advisory #07122001: Eye-Fi Multiple Vulnerabilities

Airscanner Mobile Security Advisory #07122001:

Eye-Fi Solution Multiple Vulnerabilities Product:
Eye-Fi 1.1.2

Platform:
NA

Requirements:
NA

Credits:
Seth Fogie
Airscanner Mobile Security
http://www.airscanner.com
December 20, 2007

Risk Level:
Medium - Spoofed image injection, redirection of uploaded content, 
remote DoS of Eye-Fi service.

Summary:
The Eye-Fi is an instant solution to add wireless upload capability to 
any digital camera that supports an SD card. In the version of software 
tested, the solution has numerous vulnerabilities that can allow 
unauthorized image uploades to a PC, remotely altering the destination 
folder, remote crashing of the Eye-Fi service, and more.

Details:

Numerous CSRF attacks that can be launched from a malicious website. 
These will work as long as the Eye-Fi service is running, which it is by 
default. These are all possible because the service communicates with the 
browser via requests to http://localhost:59278.
-CSRF to enable/disable Autostart
-CSRF to enable/disable file upload
-CSRF to change location of file download (default is local system) to remote location via SMB
-CSRF to crash the Eye-Fi service
-CSRF to reconfigure the Eye-Fi card
 
Weak authentication scheme based on time of day leads to spoofed image uploads.

Spoof Eye-Fi listener on local or remote network.

In addition to these issues, there are several wireless related risks associated 
with the Eye-Fi sending out probe requests. Using Karma like programs, a rouge
wireless network can be setup, through which the Eye-Fi card will automatically pass
the images, allowing them to be capture.

More details on this program and the vulnerabilities are located at:

http://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=1174944
http://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=1177111


Vendor Response:
Vendor has released updated software for both the Eye-Fi software 
package and the SD card (firmware update).

Copyright (c) 2008 Airscanner Corp.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert 
electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express 
written consent of Airscanner Corp. If you wish to reprint the whole or 
any part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically, 
please contact Airscanner Corp. for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate 
at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use 
of the information constitutes acceptance for use on an AS IS condition. 
There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the 
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct, indirect, 
or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or reliance on, 
this information.






