
Date: Tue, 26 Sep 2006 13:17:38 -0700
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-06-029: Ipswitch WS_FTP Server Checksum Command Parsing Buffer Overflow
 Vulnerabilities

ZDI-06-029: Ipswitch WS_FTP Server Checksum Command Parsing
            Buffer Overflow Vulnerabilities
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-06-029.html
September 26, 2006

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2006-5000

-- Affected Vendor:
Ipswitch

-- Affected Products:
Ipswitch WS_FTP Server v5.04, v5.05

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since September 26, 2006 by Digital Vaccine protection
filter ID 4705. For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Ipswitch WS_FTP Server. Anonymous access or
authentication is required to exploit this vulnerability.

The specific flaw exists due to a lack of bounds checking during the
parsing of long string arguments to the 'XCRC', 'XSHA1' and 'XMD5'
commands leading to a stack overflow vulnerability. Exploitation
requires valid or anonymous FTP server credentials. 

-- Vendor Response:
Ipswitch has issued an update, version 5.05 Hotfix 1, to correct this
vulnerability. More details can be found at:

http://www.ipswitch.com/support/ws_ftp-server/releases/wr505hf1.asp

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2006.09.01 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2006.09.26 - Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint customers
2006.09.26 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by an anonymous researcher.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.
