
Date: 13 Sep 2005 23:31:18 -0000
From: contact@...scanner.com
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Airscanner Mobile Security Advisory #05082201: File Transfer
 Anywhere v3.01 Local Server Password Disclosure


Airscanner Mobile Security Advisory #05082201:
File Transfer Anywhere v3.01 Local Server Password Disclosure

Product:
TTXN File Transfer Anywhere v3.01 server

Platform:
Tested on Windows Mobile Pocket PC 2003

Requirements:
Mobile device running Windows Mobile Pocket PC with Transfer Anywhere v3.01 installed

Credits:
Jonathan Read, CISSP
Airscanner Mobile Security
http://www.airscanner.com
Mobile Antivirus Researchers Association
http://www.mobileav.org
August 22 2005

Risk Level:
Medium, a local attacker can view server passwords in plain text.

Summary:
File Transfer Anywhere is a http based file transfer application. It allows users to transfer files in a FTP server like way but using HTTP. The program can also be used as a webserver.
The author&#8217;s website is unknown but the software can be found on Handango.com

Details:
File Transfer Anywhere has a couple of security issues. The first issue is the failure to encrypt passwords being sent via the client to the server. Passwords are sent in plaintext and can easily be sniffed through the air using a wireless packet sniffer (when the connection between the server and client are wireless).

The second issue is of greater concern. The server by default is not password protected (which is a security risk in itself), but most people will add a password and tick the save password box to avoid intrusions from unknown clients. Although the program uses **** symbols to hide the password in the programs GUI, it stores the saved password in the local registry in plain text. The password can easily be located using a registry editor tool at the following registry location:

[\HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\TTXN\File Transfer Anywhere]

Under this key a value called PASS will have the password as its data. This data should be encrypted as it gives a local attacker information that could allow them to gain full remote control of the device at a later stage.

Workaround:
None

Vendor Response
The vendor was notified and has released a new version that fixes this issue

Copyright (c) 2005 Airscanner Corp.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express written consent of Airscanner Corp. If you wish to reprint the whole or any part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically, please contact Airscanner Corp. for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use of the information constitutes acceptance for use on an AS IS condition. There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct, indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or reliance on, this information.


