
Date: Tue, 1 May 2007 14:40:38 -0700
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-023: Apple QTJava toQTPointer() Pointer Arithmetic Memory Overwrite
 Vulnerability

ZDI-07-023: Apple QTJava toQTPointer() Pointer Arithmetic Memory
            Overwrite Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-023.html
May  1, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-2175

-- Affected Vendor:
Apple

-- Affected Products:
Quicktime

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since April 23, 2007 by Digital Vaccine protection
filter ID 5310, 5311. For further product information on the TippingPoint 
IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows attackers to execute arbitrary code on systems
with vulnerable installations of Apple's QuickTime. User interaction is
required to exploit this vulnerability in that the target must visit a
malicious page.

The flaw exists within the QuickTime Java extensions (QTJava.dll),
specifically the routine toQTPointer() exposed through
quicktime.util.QTHandleRef. A lack of sanity checking on the parameters
passed to this routine, through the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), allows
an attacker to write arbitrary values to memory. This can be leveraged
to execute arbitrary code under the context of the current user.
Example code execution vectors include Microsoft Internet Explorer,
Mozilla Firefox and Apple Safari. This vulnerability affects the latest
versions of both the MacOS and Windows operating systems, including
MacOS 10.4.9 and Windows Vista.

-- Vendor Response:
Apple has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More details
can be found at:

    http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=305446

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2007.04.23 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.04.23 - Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint customers
2007.05.01 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by Dino A. Dai Zovi.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.

