
Date: Wed, 31 Oct 2018 19:18:37 GMT
From: luke.bailiff@...rs.org
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: OpenText Brava! Enterprise and Brava! Server Components Sensitive
 Data Exposure

Vulnerable Application:  Brava! Enterprise and Brava! Server Components

Affected Versions:  Brava! Enterprise and Brava! Server Components have this as the default configuration, from Brava! 7.5 to the latest Brava! 16.4 on Windows.

Not Affected Versions: Linux installs do not automatically create the share.  

Potential Security Impact: Sensitive Data Exposure

If the files within your implementation are sensitive, this may expose sensitive data to unauthorized users.  Limiting SMB access will help mitigate this vulnerability as well.  

Since the default permissions allow for modify access of the files, there is some potential against the integrity of the file as the user is viewing it, but this has not been explored.


Vulnerability Description: During the installation of Brava! Enterprise and Brava! Server Components, a file share is created on the windows server called "displaylistcache" with full read and write permissions for the everyone group at both the NTFS and Share levels.  The share is used to retrieve documents for processing, and to store processed documents for display in the browser. This is the default behavior of the install. The only required share level access is read/write by the JobProcessor service account. At the local filesystem level, the only additional required permissions would be read/write from the servlet engine (typically Tomcat).  The affected server components are not installed with Content Server by default, and must be installed separately.


Remediation:  Review your OpenText install to see if you are affected.  If affected, update permissions on the displaylistcache share and local level to allow only the servlet engine (typically tomcat) and the JobProcessor service accounts access.  

Vendor declined to update the installer behavior, but has updated their documentation.

Vendor comment:   
Our default Brava! Enterprise/Brava! Server Components installer is intended to be used as a starting point for implementation within your environment. We do provide guidelines within our documentation on how to harden the Brava! Enterprise web application/server and expect that the documentation be reviewed during installation and configuration. Our documentation does include information on the requirements of the displaylistcache share, but because each customer will have different infrastructure-based considerations, which would be overwhelming to thoroughly document, we only offer general guidance.  We continually evaluate our documentation over time and lately have updated our "Security Considerations" documentation to add more clarity around the requirements of a displaylistcache configuration.
