
Date: Fri, 25 Apr 2014 04:34:39 +0400
From: Solar Designer <solar@...nwall.com>
To: oss-security@...ts.openwall.com
Subject: Re: Request for linux-distros list membership

On Fri, Apr 25, 2014 at 04:11:51AM +0400, Solar Designer wrote:
> - Amazon Linux AMI having a significant userbase, which is unclear for
> Qlustar yet.  When the first request to subscribe Qlustar was made, IIRC
> my Google web search for it found surprisingly few results (like 20),
> and even fewer not on Qlustar's own sites.  This has improved since: a
> Google web search for "Qlustar" (in quotes) gives "About 2,060 results"
> results now, although there's relatively little vendor-independent
> content (postings other than by or forwarded from Roland, etc.)  Hitting
> "Next" exhausts the actual distinct search results on page 6, saying "In
> order to show you the most relevant results, we have omitted some
> entries very similar to the 57 already displayed."

For comparison and for the record, Google web search for "Amazon Linux
AMI" (in quotes) gives "About 515,000 results", and the distinct results
it displays are exhausted on page 16 with "In order to show you the most
relevant results, we have omitted some entries very similar to the 170
already displayed."  With the duplicates detection disabled, I am getting
to "Page 52 of about 458,000 results" until Google refuses to display
more results.  It is unclear at first glance whether there are actually
many duplicates within those 52 pages (vs. 16 pages) or not.  So perhaps
that was not a very good check for either distro.

More important than these (unreliable) numbers of search results are the
findings on actually relevant pages that I checked manually (I did check
a handful for either distro).  Like I said, I couldn't find any users'
discussions of Qlustar.  There are clear users' postings about Amazon
Linux AMI among those web search results I saw.

Also, the three-word search query may have worse luck than the one-word
"Qlustar", because many users would not bother to type all the three
words (and consistently do it in the canonical way).  So I'd expect
significant bias towards more "Qlustar" results if these distros had
similar userbases.  For obvious reasons, a comparison against just
"Amazon" would be differently unfair (and mostly irrelevant).

Alexander
