
Date: Mon, 15 Nov 2010 16:55:28 +0000
From: bugtraq@...ketstormsecurity.org
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Packet Storm - New Site

Packet Storm Security Launches New Site
http://packetstormsecurity.org/

November 15, 2010 -  Today is the launch of a completely
new version of Packet Storm that has been long awaited 
and is long overdue.  The security community has given
us a lot of feedback during our design phase and we 
have attempted to integrate many features.  

As you may already know, Packet Storm is home to a 
massive security portal that houses news, whitepapers,
advisories, exploits and tools.  

It's a place to showcase your work, whether it be
a research advisory or a tool you wrote.  It's a 
place to check news headlines coming down the
wire or to find out about the latest vulnerabilities.

The goal of the new site is usability and integration.  
We realized that this community is missing a centralized
portal to appropriately promote their work and interact
with others in the community.  


The site currently hosts:

    More than 38,000 advisories

    More than 20,000 exploits

    More than 5,000 tools

    More than 2,000 whitepapers

    Full historical view of releases - going all the way back to 1998.



New core features:

    Trending for top author, popular topics and daily additions

    Tagging exists all over the place

    Commenting is allowed everywhere

    RSS feeds are all over the place

    Search Users, Files, News and Authors



Users:

    Commenting, favorites and the ability to view the favorites of the people you follow.

    CVE and OSVDB integration

    Privacy settings for all personal information

    You can send messages to other users

    You can switch to a minimal listing view

    You can set your primary mirror; we're on four continents

    Share items with Facebook, Twitter, Digg, Reddit, LinkedIn, etc


Authors:

    Your very own author page and author id.

    Ability to add biographic information and a picture.

    Authors ranked by releases per month 


If an already established author applies with the 
same email address as is stored in the archive,
their profile will be linked to their work on the site.

We expect some issues during this launch as we are in
a beta state, so please feel free to send feedback to
feedback@...ketstormsecurity.org if you have any issues.

Thanks,
The Staff
staff@...ketstormsecurity.org
http://packetstormsecurity.org/

