
Date: Wed, 04 Jun 2008 10:53:06 -0400
From: iDefense Labs <labs-no-reply@...fense.com>
To: vulnwatch@...nwatch.org, full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk,
	bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: iDefense Security Advisory 06.03.08: Sun Java System Active Server
 Pages Buffer Overflow Vulnerability

iDefense Security Advisory 06.03.08
http://labs.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/
Jun 03, 2008

I. BACKGROUND

Sun Java System Active Server Pages is a multi-platform ASP application
server. It provides provides ASP (Active Server Pages) functionality to
a web server. More information is available at the following URL.

http://www.sun.com/software/chilisoft/index.xml

II. DESCRIPTION

Remote exploitation of a buffer overflow vulnerability in Sun
Microsystem's Java System Active Server Pages allows attackers to
execute arbitrary code in the context of the ASP server.

The vulnerability exists within the request handling code within the ASP
server. An attacker supplied string is copied into a fixed size stack
buffer without first validating that there is sufficient space
available. By supplying a specially crafted request, an attacker can
cause a stack-based buffer overflow.

III. ANALYSIS

Exploitation allows an attacker to execute arbitrary code in the context
of the ASP server. This vulnerability can be reached from a normal web
server, usually on TCP port 80, configured to pass requests for ASP
applications through the ASP server. No authentication is required to
exploit this vulnerability. If this service is configured to run with
root privileges it is possible to gain complete control over the
affected system.

IV. DETECTION

iDefense has confirmed the existence of this vulnerability within
version 4.0.2 of Sun Microsystems Inc.'s Java System Active Server
Pages. Older versions are suspected to be vulnerable.

V. WORKAROUND

iDefense is currently unaware of any effective workaround for this
issue.

However, configuring the ASP server to run with reduced privileges can
help prevent a complete compromise. This can be accomplished via the
"Inherit user security" setting or setting a user and group to run with
when using the "Defined user security" mode.

VI. VENDOR RESPONSE

Sun Microsystems has addressed this vulnerability with the release of
version 4.0.3 of Sun Java System Active Server Pages. For more
information, refer to Sun Alert 238184 at the following URL.

http://sunsolve.sun.com/search/document.do?assetkey=1-66-238184-1

VII. CVE INFORMATION

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project has assigned the
name CVE-2008-2404 to this issue. This is a candidate for inclusion in
the CVE list (http://cve.mitre.org/), which standardizes names for
security problems.

VIII. DISCLOSURE TIMELINE

04/04/2007  Initial vendor notification
04/05/2007  Initial vendor response
06/03/2008  Coordinated public disclosure

IX. CREDIT

The discoverer of this vulnerability wishes to remain anonymous.

Get paid for vulnerability research
http://labs.idefense.com/methodology/vulnerability/vcp.php

Free tools, research and upcoming events
http://labs.idefense.com/

X. LEGAL NOTICES

Copyright © 2008 iDefense, Inc.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert
electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express
written consent of iDefense. If you wish to reprint the whole or any
part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically,
please e-mail customerservice@...fense.com for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate
at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use
of the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS condition.
 There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct,
indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or
reliance on, this information.
