
Date: Fri, 11 Aug 2006 14:19:56 -0700
From: "Secure" <secure@...antec.com>
To: <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: (Security Advisory) SYM06-014 Symantec Backup Exec Internal RPC Overflow


Any further revisions to this information, if required, will be posted
to
the official advisory located at :
http://www.symantec.com/avcenter/security/Content/2006.08.11.html


Symantec Security Advisory

SYM06-014

BID 19479

11 August 2006 

Symantec Backup Exec for Windows Server:  RPC Interface Heap Overflow,
Authorized User Potential Elevation of Privilege 

Revision History
None 

Severity
Medium 

Remote Access Yes Local Access No Authentication Required Yes  Exploit
publicly available No 
Overview
The Backup Exec for Windows Server and Remote Agents for Window Server,
also used by the Continuous Protection Server and Backup Exec for
Netware
Server, are vulnerable to heap overflows from specifically formatted
internal network calls to RPC interfaces.

Supported Product(s Affected 
Product Version Build Solution(s) Backup Exec for Windows Server and
Remote
Agent 9.1 9.1.4691 HotFix Available Backup Exec for Windows Server  and
Remote Agent 10.0 10.0.5484 HotFix Available Backup Exec for Windows
Server
 and Remote Agent 10.0 10.0.5520 HotFix Available Backup Exec for
Windows
Server and Remote Agent  10.1 10.1.5629 HotFix Available Backup Exec
Continuous Protection Server Remote Agent for Windows Server 10.1
10.1.325.6301 HotFix Available Backup Exec Continuous Protection Server
Remote Agent for Windows Server 10.1 10.1.326.1401 HotFix Available
Backup
Exec Continuous Protection Server Remote Agent for Windows Server 10.1
10.1.326.2501 HotFix Available Backup Exec Continuous Protection Server
Remote Agent for Windows Server 10.1 10.1.326.3301 HotFix Available
Backup
Exec Continuous Protection Server Remote Agent for Windows Server 10.1
10.1.327.401 HotFix Available Backup Exec for Netware Server Remote
Agent
for Windows Server 9.1 All HotFix Available Backup Exec for Netware
Server
Remote Agent for Windows Server 9.2 All HotFix Available 
NOTE: ONLY the products and versions listed above are affected by these
issues. 

Product versions prior to those listed above are NOT supported.
Customers
running legacy product versions should upgrade and apply available
updates.
Details
Tenable Network Security, http://www.tenablesecurity.com/, notified
Symantec of heap overflow issues they identified in the RPC interfaces
of
the Backup Exec for Window Servers and Remote Agents.  The Remote Agent
for
Windows Server (RAWS) is also used by the Continuous Protection Server
as
well as Backup Exec for Netware Server depending on the customer's
network environment.  The overflows occur due to improper validation and
subsequent handling of user input.  Successful exploitation would
require
the attacker to have authorized but non-privileged access to the network
on
which the target system resides. A malicious user who attempted such an
attack may cause the targeted application to crash but, if successfully
exploited, could potentially execute arbitrary code and gain elevated
privilege on the targeted system. 

Symantec Response
Symantec engineers did an in-depth review of the reported issues and
related file functionality to further enhance the overall security of
Symantec Backup Exec for Windows Server and the Remote Agent for Windows
Server and to resolve any additional potential concerns. Symantec
engineers
have addressed these issues in all currently supported versions of the
products identified above.  Security updates are available for all
supported products. 
Symantec strongly recommends all customers apply the latest security
update
as indicated for their supported product versions to protect against
threats of this nature.
Symantec knows of no exploitation of or adverse customer impact from
these
issues.


The patches listed above for affected products are available from the
following location:
 http://support.veritas.com/docs/284343 for Symantec Backup Exec for
Windows Server and Continuous Protection Server and
http://support.veritas.com/docs/284623 for Backup Exec for Netware
Server.
Best Practices
As part of normal best practices, Symantec recommends: 
* Restrict access to administration or management systems to authorized
privileged users
* Block remote access to all ports not essential for efficient operation
* Restrict remote access, if required, to trusted/authorized systems
only
* Remove/disable unnecessary accounts or restrict access according to
security policy as required 
* Run under the principle of least privilege where possible
* Keep all operating systems and applications updated with the latest
vendor patches 
* Follow a multi-layered approach to security. Run both firewall and
antivirus applications, at a minimum, to provide multiple points of
detection and protection to both inbound and outbound threats 
* Deploy network intrusion detection systems to monitor network traffic
for
signs of anomalous or suspicious activity. This may aid in detection of
attacks or malicious activity related to exploitation of latest
vulnerabilities
CVE 
A CVE Candidate name has been requested from the Common Vulnerabilities
and
Exposures (CVE) initiative for this issue. This advisory will be revised
accordingly upon receipt of the CVE Candidate name.
This issue is a candidate for inclusion in the CVE list
(http://cve.mitre.org), which standardizes names for security problems. 

Credit:
Symantec thanks Nicolas Pouvesle from Tenable Network Security for
reporting this finding and for excellent coordination while Symantec
resolved the issue.


