
Date: Wed, 20 Apr 2005 12:50:55 -0400
From: Stephen Frost <sfrost@...wman.net>
To: pgsql-hackers@...tgresql.org
Cc: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Postgres: pg_hba.conf, md5, pg_shadow, encrypted passwords

Greetings,

  There appears to be some deficiencies in both the documentation of the
  'md5' authentication methology (in pg_hba.conf) and in the md5 hash
  generation which is stored in pg_shadow.

  The md5 hash which is generated for and stored in pg_shadow does not
  use a random salt but instead uses the username which can generally be
  determined ahead of time (especially for the 'postgres' superuser
  account).  This would allow for the pregeneration of the entire md5
  keyspace using that 'salt' and then quick breakage of the hash once
  it's retrieved by the attacker.  Were a decent random salt of some
  size used it would be difficult to guess and pregenerate the keyspace
  for.  Thus, keyspace generation would have to happen after pg_shadow
  was compramised, giving the admin time to detect the compramise and
  take corrective action.

  A larger issue, which plays into the pg_shadow storage issue somewhat,
  is the lack of proper documentation of the 'md5' method of
  authentication available via pg_hba.conf.  When using the 'md5' method
  in pg_hba.conf this is what happens:

  server sends a randomly generated 'seed' to the client
  client performs md5(md5(password+username)+salt) using the salt from
    the server and information provided by the user and sends the result
    to the server
  server performs md5(hash+salt) using the salt it sent to the client
    and the hash which is stored in pg_shadow.

  In so doing the server has effectively made the hash which is stored
  in pg_shadow the key for authentication- the user's password is no
  longer necessary to authenticate to the database, only the hash from
  pg_shadow is required.  It is not clear in the documentation that
  using 'md5' in pg_hba.conf defeats 'with encrypted password' and the
  hashing in pg_shadow.  It is also not made clear that if you are
  already handling transport-level security via SSL and/or IPSEC that
  using md5 actually reduces security by not adding anything to the
  transport-level security and defeating the on-disk security
  effectivness of using md5 for pg_shadow.

  It is true that while Postgres continues to use a known salt for hash
  generation the effectiveness of md5 hashes in pg_shadow is reduced,
  though not entirely defeated as not all have resources to generate
  the keyspace for a username with a decent password (as the 'postgres'
  superuser should have) or to generate the keyspace for any number of
  user accounts which are the targetted accounts.

  If password-based authentication is required (and other methods such
  as Kerberos are unavailable), then, personally I would:

  Discourage the use of 'md5' in pg_hba.conf and favor 'password'
  Use good transport-level security via SSL and/or IPSEC
  Change the hashing for what goes into pg_shadow to use a randomly 
    generated salt instead of the username (this would require 
    changing the protocol to allow for that randomly generated salt 
    to be provided to the client when 'md5' is being used in 
    pg_hba.conf); an alternative might be to use PAM in the meantime
   Update the documetation accordingly to be clear on the issues
   As soon as possible provide other hash algorithms such as sha1/2

   I discussed this issue on IRC w/ some folks already though generally
   they didn't appear to share my level of concern over this.  My
   biggest concern is that using 'md5' in pg_hba.conf reduces security
   when another transport-level security mechanism is in place by a
   significant amount, in my view, and this isn't clear in the
   documentation.
   
   Thanks for you time, happy to answer any questions/comments on my
   analysis.

   	Stephen

Download attachment "signature.asc" of type "application/pgp-signature" (190 bytes)
