
Date: Sat, 27 Oct 2007 21:11:40 +0200
From: Lars Eilebrecht <lars@...che.org>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Final Call for Papers for Security Track at ApacheCon Europe 2008


*** The CFP deadline has been extended until 2 November 2007 ***

The Apache Software Foundation (ASF) invites submissions for the
Security track of ApacheCon Europe 2008. To be held 7 April through
11 April, 2008 at the new Mövenpick Hotel Amsterdam City Centre.
ApacheCon serves as a forum for showcasing the ASF's latest
developments, including its projects, membership, and community.
Offering unparalleled educational opportunities, with dedicated
presentations, hands-on trainings, and sessions that address core
technology, development, business/marketing, and licensing issues
in Open Source.

ApacheCon welcomes submissions for security-focused trainings and
presentations related to the following areas and topics:

 * ASF-wide projects such as HTTP Server, Jakarta, Tomcat, Geronimo,
   Harmony, SpamAssassin, Portals, and Web Services
 * General Web security and secure Web development
 * Scripting languages and dynamic content such as Java, Perl,
   Python, Ruby, and PHP
 * Case studies demonstrating the use of Apache software

NOTE: Marketing-oriented submissions aimed at promoting specific
organizations or products will not be accepted.


Submission Guidelines

Submissions must include title; speaker(s) name(s) with affiliation
and email address; format (Training vs. General Session) and duration
1-hour general session, or half-, full-day, or two-day training);
intended audience and maximum number of participants (Trainings only);
expertise level (beginner to advanced); background knowledge expected
of the participants (Trainings only); a brief summary (50 words or
less); full description including abstract and objectives (200 words
or less); and speaker bio(s) (100 words or less).

Types of Presentations: Trainings and Workshops, General Sessions,
Case Studies and Industry Profiles.

Speakers whose proposals are accepted have registration fees waived,
reasonable travel and part of their lodging expenses paid.


Important Dates

Proposal submission deadline: Friday, 2 November, 2007
Notification of acceptance: Friday, 23 November, 2007
Materials for Web site: Friday, 7 March, 2008
Materials for Trainings: Friday, 22 March, 2008
Conference Date: Monday to Friday, 7-11 April 2008
Trainings: Monday and Tuesday, 7+8 April, 2008
General Sessions: Wednesday to Friday, 9-11 April, 2008


To submit your completed proposal, please log on to the
ApacheCon CFP system: http://www.apachecon.com/html/login.html


About ApacheCon Europe 2008

ApacheCon is co-produced by the Apache Software Foundation and Stone
Circle Productions. The ApacheCon Planning team comprises ASF Members
from all over the world working on a wholly-volunteer basis.
For more information, visit http://www.apachecon.com/ or the
ApacheCon Europe Web site at http://www.eu.apachecon.com/.

Best Regards
-- 
Lars Eilebrecht  -  The Apache Software Foundation
lars@...che.org  -  Vice President, Conference Planning

