
Date: Tue, 12 Jun 2007 10:26:16 -0700
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com,
	vulnwatch@...nwatch.org, vulndiscuss@...nwatch.org
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-036: Arris Cadant C3 CMTS Remote DoS Vulnerability

ZDI-07-036: Arris Cadant C3 CMTS Remote DoS Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-036.html
June 11, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-2796

-- Affected Vendor:
Arris

-- Affected Products:
Cadant C3

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service
on vulnerable Arris Cadant C3 CMTS systems. Authentication is not
required to exploit this vulnerability.

The flaw exists due to mishandling of IP options. When an unknown or
bad option is specified, the C3 will terminate disabling all service
that is handled by that CMTS. The vulnerability can be triggered with a
single malformed IP packet.


-- Vendor Response:
Arris customers have been notified of the vulnerability and the
availability of a security update by email. For additional information,
please contact Arris support at:

    http://www.arrisi.com/contact_us/support/

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2007.02.23 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.06.11 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by an anonymous researcher.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.


CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
