
Date: Sun, 3 Jun 2007 17:20:18 -0400
From: "Joseph Evers" <lolcommawhat@...glemail.com>
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: apryl maynard, internet humanitarian

Now this is a story all about how
Apryl's life got flipped, turned upside down
and I'd like to take a minute to tell you a tale
of how this fat lesbian WEB DESIGNER failed

Wetwork:
Apryl Maynard, daughter of Robin and John (deceased)
birthday: april 12, 1979
lj: wetwork.livejournal.com
myspace: myspace.com/cloudmerchant

her phone numbers:

(905) 347-2005 (primary #)
(905) 680-1532

Address:
221 Mary Street
Thorold, Ontario L2V1J7
Canadia


ex-girlfriend darci: myspace.com/pixiestikgirl


The story, briefly, is as follows: A 20-year old girl, Krystle Lynn Babin,
known on livejournal as sad_little_scar and miss_aveline, committed suicide
on September 27th 2006. In the spring of 2007 this was mentioned by one of
the deceased's acquaintances on the journal of lj user get_therapy. As
several EDiots seem to hang around said troll journal, a typical
Encyclopedia Dramatica article was soon written mocking the deceased, in
particular her disturbing publicly-posted nudes, which included bondage and
in-use tampons. Several people including lj users wetwork and medeanyxgray
became irate and began pulling rudimentary personal info and cursing about
the great evil which the internet had wrought, while demonstrating their
moral superiority by seeking out Krystle's parents and showing them the
article. Wetwork was suspended temporarily from lj for the well-thought-out
act of posting this info publicly on a website which explicitly forbids it.
Wetwork repeatedly complained to and threatened Encyclopedia Dramatica and
the author of the article, and eventually orchestrated a DDoS attack,
forcing the article to be removed. Proof of responsibility for some type of
prank directed against her became a requirement for speaking on the ED IRC
channel. Her website was soon "down for repairs" indefinitely, and many of
her recent posts make angst-ridden references to having lost friends and to
"something very strange" going on. Her threats of "utter ruin" have so far
proven to be entirely empty, unless they were meant to be threatening to
ruin her own life. The following emails between her and a furry known as
Leam, among many others equally threatening on her part, ensued. Starting
with the most recent:

Apryl,

I just saw the Arbchat logs and I don't know what to say. I was
actually trying to work with one of the "nice" sysops (who was
present) there to at least get some of the contact info removed... and
then you threatened the wolves in their den. There isn't a thing that
can be done /now/ to reduce the amount of information in the article
for 6 months, at least (until they forget about the article).

You also, for whatever reason, appeared to coordinate a DDoS attack on
colo4dallas?

"04:15:12 PM OVERLOAD: I'll contact colo4dallas again and let them
know we have no co-operation from you
04:16:19 PM OVERLOAD: ok we're gonna play a little game
04:17:05 PM OVERLOAD: gonna msg a few people as well who want this page
gone
04:17:16 PM OVERLOAD: you will see
04:18:35 PM OVERLOAD: yah go connect to your page now assholes. we'll
see how long colo4dallas puts up with this b4 they term your ass and u
can have fun finding another provider
04:19:16 PM OVERLOAD: we'll see whos a fag when you have no provider
04:19:23 PM OVERLOAD: and colo4dallas terms your asses
04:19:30 PM OVERLOAD: u think its a joke now but you'll see
04:19:57 PM OVERLOAD: lol goto efnet bitches plenty of kiddies on
there to play with your site
04:20:12 PM OVERLOAD: you shit is done, remove the page or it can stay
down
04:20:49 PM OVERLOAD: have fun newbs, colo4dallas will be contact
again and we'll see how happy they are about your site being the cause
of their outtages
04:20:57 PM OVERLOAD: im sure other customers will be quite happy too
04:21:33 PM OVERLOAD: have fun newbs im out, but last warning remove
shit or your site can stay down"

Why didn't you listen? Why did you charge in, guns blazing? What did
you have to gain by doing so? I was right about everything in regards
to international law, copyright, and now you're trying to get an
international hosting account suspended without going through the
normal ToS channels AND threatening them AND launching or at least
coordinating a denial-of-service attack? That causes real damage to
sites other than ED, and you need to remember that.  But I suppose
like with everything else, you'll learn the hard way. I sincerely
hope that the crimes you committed aren't felonious.

Please, reconsider your threats and make amends, before this spirals
too far out of control.


WETWORK SAYS:
i want to reiterate what i've been saying this whole time:
all i did was find this kid's information and pass it along to
miss_aveline's parents. do you understand that? if shit is happening
to [name alert], that's his problem. and the information i found was
available on google. anyone could have found it.

i am not responsible for any of the things you guys seem to think i'm
doing. period. i have a life that is a little bit too full to have
time for shit like this. and i can't make anything stop [note: she was never
asked to make anything stop] because i
don't know who's doing it. i don't have any way to contact any of
these people -- they are angry friends of a dead girl that you guys
are making fun of.. i can't control that. the only person who can is
[name alert]. take down the article and everything stops. that's all i can
suggest.

and, for the record? i didn't even know the girl. i am very sorry she
died but it's not going to upset me to hear voicemail directed to a
dead girl. i got involved because i know someone who knew her and
that's all there is to it. i sent brendan's information to the parents
of the girl he's mocking and that was it.

now ask yourself: if i didn't know miss_aveline, never met her in my
life, why would i be wasting my time causing all these problems for
some kid in [location alert]?

it doesn't make a whole lot of sense, does it?

that's probably because i'm not doing anything to him. and i don't know who
is.

but you know, i don't feel sorry for him. or his crazy friends. if he
has sociopathic tendencies, he needs help. and everything i've seen of
him so far screams sociopath.

why are you even friends with him? you seem like a reasonable sort.
i'm totally bewildered by this.

again, i urge you to remove yourself from the situation. when someone
bumps me, i bump back, and you guys don't know who you're dealing
with. doesn't that seem a little worrisome? the repercussions of his
actions may not be immediately obvious but brendan is in for a world
of trouble in the very near future. [note: no world of trouble has actually
materialized.] and no, that is not a physical
threat. i'm 5'6" and haven't been in a fight since fifth grade.


LEAM:
Apryl, it isn't about Jazzriff now, or even about Miss_aveline; it's
been well-established that there isn't any legal recourse against
Jazzriff, and the article was already removed. Nothing has happened
or is happening to him. This is about what you have done to
Encyclopedia Dramatica, now.

>>From your tone, I can tell that was you in Arbchat, and your
connection information will no doubt confirm it. You set off a
denial-of-service attack on Dreamhost and outright admitted to it.
Please don't insult my intelligence by trying to deny it now. To use
a gun metaphor, you can't say you're not responsible for where a
bullet goes when you pulled the trigger, when you declared your intent
and aim. Do you see the hypocricy in calling Jazzriff a sociopath
when you are so clearly willing to do the exact same thing?

My only involvement in the situation has been to try and get it
resolved amicably (my purpose on ED) and to defend my friend; the
difference between us is that I am a pacifist. However, all my
efforts were clearly in vain. But the matter of your threats against
me and even against Jazzriff are really moot, now.

WETWORK:
i have no idea what a arbchat is -- do you understand that? and i have
absolutely no knowledge of how to 'attack' such a thing.

the conversation you sent me was grammatically incorrect and full of
misspellings. does that really sound like me? bullshit. not even
remotely possible.

the thing is, a sociopath has issues realizing that there are people
around him or her; he/she considers himself/herself to be the only
real consciousness on the planet and the rest of the population are
bit-players in his/her little play. a sociopath hurts people for
his/her own entertainment.

who would hurt by removing the article? who would cry over the loss of
that horrid piece of trash? calling me a sociopath is laughable.

my roommate was involved with miss_aveline for nearly four years. they
lived together, shared a bed and made plans for their future. when
they broke up, my roommate was utterly destroyed. a few months later,
miss_aveline was dead by her own hand. the girl just snapped, broke
into pieces and killed herself and it's absolutely impossible to get
over that kind of loss.

i adore my roommate. she is the nicest, sweetest, kindest person i've
ever met in my life. she doesn't deserve this.

only someone with real issues would hurt a girl who has never hurt
anyone in her life. only someone with psychological problems would
want to cause pain to a girl who refuses to even utter the word 'hate'
because she thinks it's too strong a term.

my roommate is being hurt and because i care about her, i will fight
to get that piece of trash taken down. i will call in every favor i am
owed and again: you do not know who you are messing with or who owes
me favors.

the article was not removed. it disappears and returns. until i get a
formal letter from [name alert] stating the article will be removed and
never reposted anywhere on the internet, i will continue my efforts to
have it removed. until brendan himself assures me that he will leave
miss_aveline's memory alone, i will pursue his utter ruin in every way
i know how.

but you need to understand (and pass it along to [name alert]'s stupid
kindergarten friends) that i am not responsible for anything that has
happened thus far. i'm working on a few things but nothing has had any
direct effect on [name alert]'s life. whatever he thinks i'm doing, i'm not
-- he hasn't seen what i'm up to because what i'm doing takes time.

i got a ridiculously funny call today, by the way. some guy said he
got my number off craigslist and called to see if i was still
interested in 'a firm hand' as he put it. i'm telling you, i laughed
so hard after the call that my friend wanted to perform CPR. so thanks
to whoever did that -- it really, really brightened my day.

you take care


quotes from ED IRC:

04:15:12 PM OVERLOAD: I'll contact colo4dallas again and let them
know we have no co-operation from you
04:16:19 PM OVERLOAD: ok we're gonna play a little game
04:17:05 PM OVERLOAD: gonna msg a few people as well who want this page
gone
04:17:16 PM OVERLOAD: you will see
04:18:35 PM OVERLOAD: yah go connect to your page now assholes. we'll
see how long colo4dallas puts up with this b4 they term your ass and u
can have fun finding another provider
04:19:30 PM OVERLOAD: u think its a joke now but you'll see
04:19:57 PM OVERLOAD: lol goto efnet bitches plenty of kiddies on
there to play with your site
04:20:12 PM OVERLOAD: you shit is done, remove the page or it can stay
down
04:20:49 PM OVERLOAD: have fun newbs, colo4dallas will be contact
again and we'll see how happy they are about your site being the cause
of their outtages
04:20:57 PM OVERLOAD: im sure other customers will be quite happy too
04:21:33 PM OVERLOAD: have fun newbs im out, but last warning remove
shit or your site can stay down


The following message was sent to Apryl Maynard through the intervention of
some deeply caring individual.

---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: John Smid, jjsmid@...einaction.org
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:18 AM
Subject: Thank you for writing us
To:silverflux.design@...il.com

Apryl,

I can certainly understand your struggle, Apryl. I have gone through
this myself as a man and have found God's resolution to work the best
and bring the greatest rewards.

You mentioned that you have "tried" to be with men and have found it
not to work. May I bring some perspective to this as I have heard
many who have said the same thing that you have.

A women [sic] need security, right? She needs safety, right? Well, think
about this, you have attempted to engage in one of the most intimate
things a human being can do, sexual intimacy. This is one of the most
vulnerable and unsafe things we can do because of that deep
vulnerability that we experience in a sexual encounter with someone.
Anytime sex is experienced outside of a committed, trusting, safe
marriage there is always the insecurity that the relationship will not
last, the person will go with someone else, we are just being used for
personal gratification etc. Many people who have struggled with same
sex attractions have attempted to solve it by seeing if they can have
a successful sexual experience with someone of the opposite sex and in
almost every case, the test comes out negative. I truly believe that
it is because the "experiment" is just that, using another person's
vulnerability to see if I can "do it". This will always end up with a
failure due to disappointment, rejection, or just a distaste for what
had just occurred.

In order for you to really experience the freedom from homosexuality
that you are speaking of it takes first of all s surrender to Jesus
Christ that abandons all that you are to His word of Truth. &nbsp;Any sex
outside of marriage is unbiblical and will end up with damage – in
every case! This means that regardless of our attractions unless we
are married we are called to live a celibate life and find God's grace
and joy in that. Secondly, God gives no positive words to us about
same sex marriage or relationship. There is nothing in Scripture that
alludes to homosexuality being something that He blesses. So marriage
means a committed relationship with someone of the opposite sex.

Did God make us gay? NO! Sin made us struggle with same sex
attractions. The sin of Adam and of those on down the line from him
have damaged our world. Our sin continues that in other's lives. We
are born into a broken world with all of the effects of sin in our
lives and our relationships. God gave us an answer, a resolution, a
freedom through the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. His love
and mercy offers us forgiveness and restoration from the sin of Adam
which brings us into eternity with Him.

Many say God doesn't make any junk. There is a truth to that but it
doesn't take into consideration the brokenness that we all experience.
Are we junk? Certainly not. But we do live in a world that is
damaged and at times pretty junky.

I have found, Apryl, that when I surrendered my life to Jesus I first
of all had answers for the problems that I was encountering. I also
found that there was an altar of forgiveness that I could run to when
I failed at something. Jesus began to show me that I had a purpose
and that He could use my life for His glory. I had talents and gifts
that were of value and this went a long way to helping me find a life
that was better. God wants to show us a life that is worthy of His
calling and that is my prayer for you – that you will find a life that
is worthy of His calling. I pray that you will see that there is so
much more of you than same sex attraction. I find men attractive
(some men that is). I also make decisions to see them as God sees
them. I choose not to see them as objects to gratify my unhealthy
desires. I have found men that I really care about and that care
about me without compromise and unhealthy things coming into the
relationship. This has been so much more rewarding for me than the
way that I used to live. I choose not to go back to where I was.
Single or married, God's grace is sufficient.

Trying out sex to see if it works is taking our lives into our own
hands. t is an attempt to control the outcome without seeking God
for His provision.

Apryl, I hope this gives you some things to think about.

Go to this website to find the ministry that might be closest to you in
Canada:

http://www.exodus.to

I love the Lord for He hears my voice. Ps. 116

Rev. John J. Smid
President and CEO
Love In Action Int'l. Inc.
4780 Yale Rd., Memphis, TN 38128
Phone: 901-751-2468
www.loveinaction.org

In response to my personal two-sentence inquiry as to why she attacked ED
and provoked Bantown, I received this bizarre work of fiction:

Mr. Evers,

Please feel free to assume I made an attack on "Bantown" since that's
clearly the popular theory. However, I assure you I have no idea what
a Bantown is, where it is, what it's for and how to locate such a
thing. I would also be at a loss if asked to describe this attack. I
play with Photoshop and write basic HTML for a living -- this does not
make me knowledgeable when it comes to attacking things.

I have been set up to take the fall for this attack because I
disagreed with someone and am now suffering for being honest about my
name, telephone number and location. I suspect the individual
responsible for what happened is someone that's very annoyed with me
or close friends with an acquaintance but I have no idea how to locate
this person in order to offer him or her up for sacrifice.

If I come by that contact information, please be assured you'll be the
first to know.

In the meantime, I'm not living at the address posted to my domain
registration information, none of the phone calls have bothered me and
I am not currently surrounded by ten thousand boxes of aluminum nails.
To sum up, none of the efforts made thus far are having much of an
effect and I would like to politely request that you rethink the
situation before making more mischief for me.

Of course, you'll ignore that request. But you and the rest of your
legion have yourself a lovely evening.


Sincerely,
Apryl Maynard

Content of type "text/html" skipped

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/
