
Date: Thu, 21 Feb 2008 00:27:53 +0100
From: Stefano Zanero <zanero@...t.polimi.it>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: CFP: Workshop on Open Source Software for Computer and Network Forensics

[ Our anticipate apologies if you receive this call for paper more than
once! ]

CALL FOR PAPERS:
1st Workshop on Open Source Software for Computer and Network Forensics
(OSSCoNF)

We are currently inviting the submission of full papers to the 1st Workshop
on Open Source Software for Computer and Network Forensics (OSSCoNF),
which will be held in conjunction with OSS2008, the Fourth International
Conference on Open Source Systems. The conference will take place in
September 7-10, 2008, in Milan, Italy. Workshops will be on September
10th, immediately after the main OSS2008 conference.

OSSCoNF aims at creating an informal, but selected academic venue to
discuss the benefits (and drawbacks, if any) of using Free, Libre, and
Open Source Software (FLOSS) for computer and network forensics,
incident management and digital investigations.

It will allow participants to present and discuss technical  issues,
exchange research ideas, introduce new development projects (and new
revision of existing projects), in order to foster the creation of a
community of practitioners and (people from academia - academics) , and
to promote the usage of FLOSS tools in computer and network forensics.

The main topics of interest for the workshop are:
- FLOSS tools for Evidence Management
     - Tools for acquisition, collection, and storage of digital evidence
      - Tools for identification, authentication, integrity preservation
of digital evidence
  - FLOSS tools for Analysis and Identification of Evidence
     - Tools for the analysis and search of digital evidence
      - Tools for cybercrime scenarios reconstruction, correlation and
data mining applied to digital forensics
      - Tools for analysis of embedded or non-traditional devices such
as cellphones, cameras...
- FLOSS tools for analysis of cybercrime
     - Data mining systems for cyber-crime strategy analysis and modeling
     - Systems for data collection and monitoring of attack trends
- FLOSS tools validation and test cases, or FLOSS validation approaches
for proprietary tools
- FLOSS tools for the automation of the forensic process and case management

We expect technical papers detailing implementation and validation of
such tools, comparisons between open source and proprietary tools, and
papers balancing benefits and drawbacks of open source and proprietary
tools in digital investigation. While the main focus of the workshop is
technical, papers dealing with legal and ethical issues will also be
evaluated.

As the workshop theme is FLOSS, all the papers must describe tools that
are publicly available under a free software or open source license. New
tools are welcome, but the authors must commit to make them available
under a suitable license before the paper revision process ends. Papers
not related to FLOSS are subject to immediate rejection.

The workshop website can be found at the following URL:
http://conferenze.dei.polimi.it/ossconf

The website of the conference is available at:
http://oss2008.dti.unimi.it/

FORMAT AND SUBMISSION

Papers should be formatted according to the guidelines for the main
conference, as listed at URL
http://oss2008.dti.unimi.it/index.php?id=authorKit.htm
Papers should be submitted by e-mail to e.huebner@....uws.edu.au .

IMPORTANT DATES:

June 7: submission deadline (firm)
June 24: notification to the authors
July 10: camera-ready papers due

ORGANIZATION

Workshop Co-Chairs:
Ewa Huebner (University of Western Sydney), e.huebner@....uws.edu.au
Stefano Zanero (Politecnico di Milano), stefano.zanero@...imi.it

Programme Committee:
Derek Bem (University of Western Sydney)
Andrew Blyth (University of Glamorgan)
Sotiris Ioannidis (ICS-FORTH, Crete)
Engin Kirda (Institut Eurecom)
Jesse Kornblum (ManTech International Corporation, MD)
Evangelos Markatos (University of Crete)
Mattia Monga (University of Milan - DICO)
Marcus Rogers (Purdue University)
Iain Sutherland (University of Glamorgan)
Magdalena Szezynska (Warsaw University of Technology)
Theodore Tryfonas (University of Glamorgan)
Doug Wampler (Indiana Department of Correction)
Alec Yasinsac (Florida State University)

-- 
Cordiali saluti,
Stefano Zanero

Politecnico di Milano - Dip. Elettronica e Informazione
Via Ponzio, 34/5 I-20133 Milano - ITALY
Tel.    +39 02 2399-4017
Fax.    +39 02 2399-3411
E-mail: zanero@...t.polimi.it
Web:    http://home.dei.polimi.it/zanero/

