
Date: Wed, 21 Dec 2005 16:48:17 +0100
From: Manh Tho <manhthovn@...il.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Workshop "Dependability Aspects in DWH and Mining applications"Deadline:15-01-06


Dear colleague,

Due to many requests (to enjoy Chirstmas and New Year Holidays), we
decide to extend the submission deadline of DAWAM 2006 to January
15, 2006

(Apologies for multiple copies due to cross postings. Please send to
interested colleagues and students)

CALL FOR PAPERS

---------------------------------------------------------------------
International Workshop "Dependability Aspects on Data WArehousing
and Mining applications" DAWAM 2006.

http://www.ares-conf.org/?q=dawam
---------------------------------------------------------------------
in conjunction with The First International Conference on
Availability, Reliability and Security - ARES 2006
(http://www.ares-conf.org)

Overview
--------
Nowadays, the rapid growth of information technologies has brought
tremendous opportunities for data sharing, integration, and analysis
across multiple distributed, heterogeneous data sources. In the past
decade, data warehousing and mining are the well-known technologies
used for data analysis and knowledge discovery in vast domain of
applications.

Data mining technology has emerged as a means of identifying
patterns and trends from large quantities of data. Data mining has
used a data warehousing model of gathering all data into a central
site, then running an algorithm against that data.

A growing attention has been paid to the study, development and
application of data warehousing and mining. Nevertheless,
dependability aspects in these applications such as availability,
reliability, integrity, privacy, and security issues are still being
investigated. For example, in data warehousing applications, privacy
considerations may prevent the approach of collecting data into the
centralized warehouse because each data source has different privacy
policy. Furthermore, the complexity of security increases as
different sources of information are combined. Reliable, consistent
and trustworthy of information are also significant requirements in
data warehousing applications. Data mining has been shown to be
beneficial in confronting various types of attacks to computer
systems such as fraud detection, intrusion prevention. In some
applications, e.g. clinic information system, government management,
business competitive information, it is required to apply the mining
algorithms without observing the confidential data values thus
demands the privacy preservation. There are also many challenging
issues that need further investigation in the context of data mining
from both privacy and security perspectives such as mining of
imbalanced data, bioinformatics data, streaming data, ubiquitous
computing data, grid computing data etc.

The goals of this workshop are to bring together users, engineers and
researchers (from industry and academy) alike to present their recent
work, discuss and identify problems, synergize different views of
techniques and policies, and brainstorm future research directions on
various dependability aspects of data warehousing and data mining
applications. We strongly encourage researchers and practitioners
with interest in the areas of reliability, availability, privacy and
security, databases, data warehousing, data mining, and statistics
to submit their experience, and/or research results.

Topics related to any of dependability aspects in data warehousing
and mining, theory, systems and applications are of interest. These
include, but are not limited to the following areas:
· Dependability and fault tolerance
· High Availability and Disaster Recovery
· Survivability of evaluative systems
· Reliability and Robustness Issues
· Accuracy and reliability of responses
· Reliable and Failure Tolerant Business Process Integration
· Reliable Event Management and Data Stream Processing
· Failure Tolerant and trustworthy Sensor Networks
· Highly available data warehouses for business processes integration
· Handling different or incompatible formats, and erroneous data
· Privacy and security policies and social impact of data mining
· Privacy preserving data integration
· Access control techniques and secure data models
· Encryption & Authentication
· Pseudonymization and Encryption
· Anonymization and pseudonymization
· Trust management, and security
· Security in Aggregation and Generalization
· User Profile Based Security
· Secure multi-party computation
· Secondary use of personal data, clinic data, credit record
· Fraud and misuse detection
· Intrusion detection and tolerance
· Data mining applications for terrorist detection
· Private queries by a (semi-trusted) third party
· Query authentication, logging, auditing, access control and
authorization policies

The program of the workshop will be a combination of invited talks,
paper/poster presentations and discussions.

Important Dates
---------------
Submission Deadline: January, 15th 2006 (Extension !!!)
Author Notification: January, 23th 2006
Author Registration: February, 1st 2006
Proceedings Version: February, 1st 2006

Submission Guidelines
---------------------
Authors are invited to submit research and application papers in IEEE
Computer Society Proceedings Manuscripts style (two columns,
single-spaced, including figures and references, using 10 fonts, and
number each page). You can confirm the IEEE Computer Society
Proceedings

Author Guidelines at the following web page:

URL: http://computer.org/cspress/instruct.htm
or http://www.tinmith.net/tabletop2006/IEEE/Format/instruct.htm


Submission are classified into 3 categories (1) full paper (8
pages), (2) short paper (5 pages), and (3) poster (2 pages)
representing original, previously unpublished work. Submitted papers
will be carefully evaluated based on originality, significance,
technical soundness, and clarity of
exposition.

Contact author must provide the following information: paper title,
authors' names, affiliations, postal address, phone, fax, and e-mail
address of the author(s), about 200-250 word abstract, and about five
keywords and register at our ARES website:

http://www.ares-conf.org/?q=dawam/

Prepare your paper in PDF file and send it to the workshop co-chair:
Dr. Nguyen Manh Tho, Institute of Software Technology, Vienna
University of Technology, via email: tho@...

Submission of a paper implies that should the paper be accepted, at
least one of the authors will register and present the paper in the
conference. Accepted papers will be given guidelines in preparing
and submitting the final manuscript(s) together with the
notification of acceptance.

Publication
-----------
All accepted papers (full and short papers) will be published as ISBN
proceedings published by IEEE Computer Society. Based on quality and
referee reviews, some papers not suitable for acceptance as full
paper will be accepted for presentation at DAWAM 2006 in Poster
category and will be also included in the IEEE Proceedings.
A selected number of papers will be nominated to be published as
special issues in appropriate journals such as Journal of automatic
and trusted computing (JoATC).

Workshop Organizer Co-chairs
----------------------------
Jimmy Huang, Prof.,
School of Information Technology,
York University,
Toronto, Ontario
Canada M3J 1P3
jhuang@...ku.ca

Josef Schiefer, Ph.D.
Senactive IT-Dienstleistungs GmbH,
Phorusgasse 8
A1040 Vienna, Austria
josef.schiefer@...active.com

Nguyen Manh Tho, Ph.D. (main contact)
Institute of Software Technique and Interactive System,
Vienna University of Technology,
Favoriten strasse 9-11/188
A1040 Vienna, Austria
tho@....tuwien.ac.at

Program Committee
-----------------
Aijun An, York University, Canada
Pawan Chowdhary, IBM T J Watson Research Center, USA
LiWu Chang, Naval Research Laboratory, USA
Josep Domingo-Ferrer, Rovira i Virgili University of Tarragona,
Spain
Elena Ferrari, University of Insubria at Como, Italy
Ulrich Flegel, University of Dortmund, Germany
Tyrone Grandison, IBM Almaden Research, USA
Jun-Jang (JJ) Jeng, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Hillol Kargupta, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, USA and
Agnik,LLC
Zongwei Luo, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong
Taneli Mielikäinen, University of Helsinki, Finland
Daniel E. O'Leary, University of Southern California, USA
Stanley Oliveira, Embrapa Information Technology, Brazil
Arnon Rosenthal, MITRE Corporation, USA
Ben Soh, La Trobe University, Australia
David Taniar, Monash University, Australia
Juan Trujillo, University of Alicante, Spain
Vassilios S. Verykios, University of Thessaly, Greece
Justin Zhan, University of Ottawa, Canada
Sheng Zhong, State University of New York at Buffalo, USA


