
Date: Fri, 8 Dec 2006 18:56:24 -0800
From: Sharkey <pdxsharkey@...il.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com, crime@...ts.whiteknighthackers.com,
	Full-Disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, incidents@...urityfocus.com,
	loganalysis@...ts.shmoo.com, pen-test@...urityfocus.com,
	privacy@...testar.linuxbox.org, funsec@...uxbox.org,
	focus-linux@...urityfocus.com, webappsec@...urityfocus.com,
	focus-ids@...urityfocus.com, honeypots@...urityfocus.com,
	focus-ms@...urityfocus.com, pdxsharkey@...il.com
Subject: Call For Papers: SecurityOPUS 2007

Call for Papers

Security OPUS - Call for Papers
March 19-20, 2006.
San Francisco, California. USA
http://www.securityopus.com/papers.phphttp://www.securityopus.com/papers.php



Security OPUS is an annual meeting of professional security
researchers and information security practioners. The conference is a
single track series of presentations designed to focus on new
research/advances in the field. We are looking to ensure each talk
contains relevant and current research and/or addresses today's
issues. One-hour and extended presentation sessions, provides
attendees with a significant advantage, by being informed about
current and future challenges.

Submit to 'contact -at- securityOPUS - com


Step 1.
Submit abstract by JANUARY 30th 2007.
Talk abstracts should be in plain text and contain:
- Presenter name and contact info (e-mail, postal address, phone, fax).
- Brief biography, list of publications, employer or relevant associations.
- Talk title and summary

The review committee assesses the relevance of your abstract to the
conference, your qualifications to be presenting your proposed topic,
and your rationale.



Step 2.

Committee Review
The program committee will review your proposal per the guidelines above.
Notification of acceptance will follow.

Step 3

Submit Slides by FEBRUARY 15th, 2007

Your talk slides should be submitted for review by February 15th, 2007.

We ask that you submit this content in PDF format to facilitate
publication and distribution of the content.


Fine Print

Publication Rights

The conference requires non-exclusive publication rights to submitted
papers including the publication of audio and video proceedings.
Copyright is retained by the author. We do ask that we be the first
organization to publish any given paper.

Failure to Submit
In the event that a deadline is missed we reserve the right to revoke
any offer to present.
