
Date: Tue, 06 Dec 2005 22:12:09 -0600
From: Saeed Abu Nimeh <drellman@...mail.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Journal of Computer Virology-Call for Papers


Call for Papers

Journal of Computer Virology

In association with

Mobile Antivirus Researchers Assoc.

Special Issue on Mobile Malware and Anti-Malware Technologies



Any new computer technology cannot ignore the risk of malware. As soon 
as a new technical novelty appears, malware risk should be taken 
immediately into consideration. Mobile environments are probably the 
best recent examples with the growing activity of virus for mobile phones.



The Journal of Computer Virology invites authors to discuss the state of 
the art of malware and anti-malware technologies and security issues for 
mobile environments. Authors are invited to submit full technical papers 
of up to 25 pages presenting novel and mature research results. Papers 
will be reviewed and papers accepted will be published in a Special 
Issue of the Journal in Computer Virology.



The scope of this special issue includes, but is not limited to the 
following topics:*

Viruses, worms, trojans and spyware (malicious codes threats).
Antiviral techniques.
System and network security.
Software security.
Software implementation security.
PDA, smartphone and mobile device security.
Wi-Fi/WLAN/Bluetooth security
Reverse engineering.
Cryptography and cryptanalysis.
Mobile forensics and law-enforcement.
Security policies.


Important dates

Submission deadline: March 15, 2006.
Notification of acceptance: June 15, 2006.
Final paper camera ready copy due: July 7, 2006.
Paper Submissions

All submissions must be in English and in either postscript or PDF 
format. Submitted papers must not substantially overlap papers that have 
been published or that are simultaneously submitted to a journal or a 
conference with proceedings. White papers and technical reports meeting 
these restrictions are accepted.

      Please submit papers to Prof. Eric Filiol at the following email 
address

                            efiliol@...t.terre.defense.gouv.fr



