
Date: Tue, 22 Mar 2005 15:53:04 -0500
From: "Marchand, Tom" <Tom.Marchand@...sfl.com>
To: "Chris Wysopal" <weld@...nwatch.org>
Cc: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: RE: [VulnWatch] Details of Sybase ASE bugs withheld


And what happens when the vendor won't  indemnify the researchers?  No more security bulletins?  Wouldn't the vendors love that.  Or would security researchers become outlaws?


-----Original Message-----
From:	Chris Wysopal [mailto:weld@...nwatch.org]
Sent:	Tue 3/22/2005 4:26 PM
To:	Marchand, Tom
Cc:	bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject:	RE: [VulnWatch] Details of Sybase ASE bugs withheld



On Tue, 22 Mar 2005, Marchand, Tom wrote:

> If the bug was found by disassembling Sybase's code then Sybase probably
> does have a legal position to do this.  I haven't read Sybase's EULA but
> most have a provision prohibiting reverse engineering of code.

It is certainly possible to discover security flaws without reverse
engineering. You don't need to get to the point where you know how the
internals of a program are built. Injecting crafted data into a program's
inputs and observing whether or not it crashes or misbehaves is simply
using the program.

If it is decided by the courts that all security analysis is covered by a
blanket EULA no reverse engineering provision, a potential solution for
security researchers is to require that the vendor indemnify them from
reverse engineering civil suits before disclosing information them.

-Chris






Blue Cross Blue Shield of Florida, Inc., and its subsidiary and affiliate companies are not responsible for errors or omissions in this e-mail message. Any personal comments made in this e-mail do not reflect the views of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Florida, Inc.  The information contained in this document may be confidential and intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom it is addressed.  This document may contain material that is privileged or protected from disclosure under applicable law.  If you are not the intended recipient or the individual responsible for delivering to the intended recipient, please (1) be advised that any use, dissemination, forwarding, or copying of this document IS STRICTLY PROHIBITED; and (2) notify sender immediately by telephone and destroy the document. THANK YOU.




