
Date: Wed, 10 Oct 2007 14:51:46 -0700
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-056: IBM DB2 DB2JDS Multiple Vulnerabilities

ZDI-07-056: IBM DB2 DB2JDS Multiple Vulnerabilities
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-056.html
October 10, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-5324

-- Affected Vendor:
IBM

-- Affected Products:
DB2 Universal Database 8.1
DB2 Universal Database 8.2

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since January  5, 2007 by Digital Vaccine protection
filter ID 4870,4876,4877. For further product information on the
TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
The most severe of these vulnerabilities allows remote attackers to
execute arbitrary code on vulnerable installations of IBM DB2 Universal
Database. Authentication is not required to exploit these
vulnerabilities.

The first flaw exists in the DB2JDS service listening on TCP port 6789.
A specially crafted packet is improperly processed by an internal
sprintf() call resulting in a stack overflow which can be leveraged to
execute arbitrary code.

Additionally, two DoS condition vulnerabilities were discovered. The
first flaw is an overflow resulting from an invalid LANG paramater. The
second DoS can be triggered by sending a packet over 32768 bytes in
length, resulting in a MemTree overflow which will cause the process to
terminate.

-- Vendor Response:
IBM has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More details can
be found at:

http://www-1.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg1IY97750

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2006.11.09 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.01.05 - Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint customers
2007.10.10 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by an anonymous researcher.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.


CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
