
Date: 24 Dec 2005 22:20:15 -0000
From: contact.removethis@...ovethis.airscanner.com
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Airscanner Mobile Security Advisory #0508310 Spb Kiosk Engine
 Administrator Password & Information Disclosure


Airscanner Mobile Security Advisory #05083101:
Spb Kiosk Engine Administrator Password & Information Disclosure (Local)

Product:
Kiosk Engine 1.0.0.1

Platform:
Tested on Windows Mobile Pocket PC 2003

Requirements:
Mobile device running Windows Mobile Pocket PC with Kiosk Engine 1.0.0.1 installed

Credits:
Seth Fogie
Airscanner Mobile Security
http://www.airscanner.com
Mobile Antivirus Researchers Association
http://www.mobileav.org
August 30 2005

Risk Level:
Medium. Local attacker gains unauthorized control over device.

Summary:
Spb Kiosk Engine allows you to run your custom application(s) in kiosk mode. In this mode, the target applications are the only ones that can be used on a specific Pocket PC device.

Details:
Kiosk Engine allows an administrator to enter their passcode to gain full control over a PDA with the Kiosk Engine installed. This passcode is stored in the registry as plaintext and can be obtained several different ways (eg. remote registry access).

Workaround:
None

Vendor Response
Waiting response.

Online Advisory: 
http://www.airscanner.com/security/05083101_kioskpass.htm

Copyright (c) 2005 Airscanner Corp.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express written consent of Airscanner Corp. If you wish to reprint the whole or any part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically, please contact Airscanner Corp. for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use of the information constitutes acceptance for use on an AS IS condition. There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct, indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or reliance on, this information.



