
Date: Sat, 28 May 2016 09:32:52 GMT
From: mohitreload@...il.com
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Multiple  Vulnerabilities in Intex Wireless N150 Easy Setup Router

Intex Wireless N150 Easy Setup Router 
Vulnerabilities 
1.	Overview
Intex Wireless N150 Easy Setup Router, firmware version: V5.07.51_en_INX01, uses default credentials, vulnerable to cross-site request forgery, clear text Transmission of Sensitive Information and other attacks.
2.	Vulnerabilities
1.	Credentials Management
2.	Clear text Transmission of Sensitive Information
3.	Auto Complete is enabled
4.	Cross-Site Request Forgery
5.	Improper Neutralization of Input during Web Page Generation
3.	Vulnerabilities Description
The purpose of this paper is to outline the security measures being taken by Intex to prevent such attacks in their home routing products, what those security measures accomplish, and where they fall short. Following are the details of the vulnerabilities that we find during the security assessment.
(1)	Credentials Management 
Intex uses a default password of admin for the admin account. A local area network attacker can gain privileged access to the web management interface or leverage default credentials in remote attacks such as cross-site request forgery.
(2)	Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information
IT transmits sensitive or security-critical data in cleartext in a communication channel that can be sniffed by unauthorized actors. 
(3)	Auto Complete is enabled
The Web form contains passwords or other sensitive text fields for which the browser auto-complete feature is enabled. Auto-complete stores completed form field and passwords locally in the browser, so that these fields are filled automatically when the user visits the site again.
Sensitive data and passwords can be stolen if the user's system is compromised.
Screenshot: https://www.dropbox.com/s/3hhdyp6iisw1kg6/1.png?dl=0
(4)	Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
Intex contain global cross-site request forgery (CSRF) vulnerability. An attacker can perform actions with the same permissions as a victim user, provided the victim has an active session and is induced to trigger the malicious request. Note that in combination with default credentials, an attacker can establish an active session as part of an attack and therefore would not require a victim to be logged in.
 Screenshot:https://www.dropbox.com/s/rh5b925ua0g66s8/2.png?dl=0
(5)	Improper Neutralization of Input during Web Page Generation
Router does not properly sanitize the Input values. This allows a malicious user to inject arbitrary JavaScript. It results in a failure of the Web page to properly display content and corrupts the administrative interface.
 Screenshot:1. https://www.dropbox.com/s/civcjng1tq0bh9v/3.png?dl=0
2. https://www.dropbox.com/s/civcjng1tq0bh9v/3.png?dl=0
 
4.	Impact:
An attacker can obtain credentials, configuration information and gain complete control of affected devices.
5.	Solutions
Until these vulnerabilities are addressed by the company, users should consider the following workarounds.
a)	Restrict access and use strong passwords
As a general good security practice, only allow trusted hosts to connect to the LAN. Implement strong passwords for WiFi and for the web management interface. Strong passwords can help to prevent blind guessing attempts that would establish sessions for CSRF attacks. LAN hosts should not browse the Internet while the web management interface has an active session in a browser tab.
