
Date: Thu, 13 Jan 2011 03:21:46 -0800
From: Dragos Ruiu <dr@....net>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Final Penultimate last Call for Papers for CanSecWest 2011 (deadline Jan. 17th, conf March 9-11)

"First they ignore you, then they ridicule you, 
then they fight you, then you win." -- Mahatma Ghandi.

Well if Fox's new comedy show "Breaking In" is any
indication, infosec has now entered Ghandi's second 
stage. http://goo.gl/ZpLDp [youtube] (hat tip to Adam 
O'Donnell for this humorous find, and Sam Bowne for 
the quote/quip)

But on a slightly more serious note.

CanSecWest is nearing in the second week of March, and 
this year I've waited on sending out the CFP note/reminder. 
It's been up on the site for a while with a Dec 29 deadline, 
but this is the real last call for submissions. If you don't get 
them in by this weekend they won't make the selections 
review process next week. We'll try to announce the 
selections the week following. After 11 years, most 
of you should know the drill, but for those who haven't 
submitted or attended before, the fine print and usual 
further information is attached below.

Other info:

We are doing more dojo training courses  than ever this 
year (17!) and they will be up for registration next week. 
I've also confirmed with Aaron/TippingPoint/HP that we 
will again be holding PWN2OWN with both browser and 
mobile targets, so stand by for some announcements 
there. There will also be some other new experiments 
and conference goings on, some fascinating keynotes 
that have been invited, as well as some interesting new 
sponsors exhibiting new security wares that you'll see 
announced on the conference site in the coming weeks, 
but for now, get your talk proposals in so that our grumpy, 
cynical, and battle-scarred reviewers can complain about 
them, err, I mean provide informative feedback.;-)

cheers,
--dr (@dragosr)

The usual CFP boilerplate info:

Call For Papers

   The CanSecWest 2011 CFP is now open.

   Deadline is January 17th, 2011.

CanSecWest CALL FOR PAPERS

   VANCOUVER, Canada -- The twelfth annual CanSecWest applied technical
   security conference - where the eminent figures in the international
   security industry will get together share best practices and
   technology - will be held in downtown Vancouver at the the Sheraton
   Wall Centre on March 9-11, 2011. The most significant new discoveries
   about computer network hack attacks and defenses, commercial security
   solutions, and pragmatic real world security experience will be
   presented in a series of informative tutorials.

   The CanSecWest meeting provides international researchers a relaxed,
   comfortable environment to learn from informative tutorials on key
   developments in security technology, and to collaborate and socialize
   with their peers in one of the world's most scenic cities - a short
   drive away from one of North America's top skiing areas.

   The CanSecWest conference will also feature the availability of the
   Security Masters Dojo expert network security sensei instructors, and
   their advanced, and intermediate, hands-on training courses -
   featuring small class sizes and practical application exercises to
   maximize information transfer.

   We would like to announce the opportunity to submit papers, and/or
   lightning talk proposals for selection by the CanSecWest technical
   review committee. This year we will be doing one hour talks, and some
   shorter talk sessions.

   Please make your paper proposal submissions before January 17th,
   2011.

   Some invited papers have been confirmed, but a limited number of
   speaking slots are still available. The conference is responsible for
   travel and accommodations for the speakers. If you have a proposal for
   a tutorial session then please make your submission  by emailing a 
   synopsis of the material and your biography, papers and, speaking
   background to secwest11@...secwest.com . Only slides will be needed 
   for the March paper deadline, full text does not have to be submitted - but
   will be accepted if available. This year we will be opening  CanSecWest 
   presentation guidelines to include talks not in English (particularly
   Chinese and Korean) which we will offer to translate for the speaker 
   if you are not a native English speaker. 
 
   The CanSecWest 2011 conference consists of tutorials on technical
   details about current issues, innovative techniques and best practices
   in the information security realm. The audiences are a multi-national
   mix of professionals involved on a daily basis with security work:
   security product vendors, programmers, security officers, and network
   administrators. We give preference to technical details and new
   education for a technical audience.

   The conference itself is a single track series of presentations in a
   lecture theater environment. The presentations offer speakers the
   opportunity to showcase on-going research and collaborate with peers
   while educating and highlighting advancements in security products and
   techniques. The focus is on innovation, tutorials, and education
   instead of product pitches. Some commercial content is tolerated, but
   it needs to be backed up by a technical presenter - either giving a
   valuable tutorial and best practices instruction or detailing
   significant new technology in the products.

   Paper proposals should consist of the following information:
    1. Presenter, and geographical location (country of origin/passport)
       and contact info (e-mail, postal address, phone, fax).
    2. Employer and/or affiliations.
    3. Brief biography, list of publications and papers.
    4. Any significant presentation and educational
       experience/background.
    5. Topic synopsis, Proposed paper title, and a one paragraph
       description.
    6. Reason why this material is innovative or significant or an
       important tutorial.
    7. Optionally, any samples of prepared material or outlines ready.
    8. Will you have full text available or only slides?
    9. Language of preference for submission.
   10. Please list any other publications or conferences where this
       material has been or will be published/submitted.

   Please include the plain text version of this information in your
   email as well as any file, pdf, sxw, ppt, or html attachments.

   Please forward the above information to secwest11@...secwest.com
   to be considered for placement on the speaker roster, or have your
   lightning talk scheduled. If you contact anyone else at our
   organization please ensure you also cc the submission address with
   your proposal or else it may be omitted from the review process.

-- 
World Security Pros. Cutting Edge Training, Tools, and Techniques
Vancouver, Canada, March 9-11 2011  http://cansecwest.com
pgpkey http://dragos.com/ kyxpgp
