
Date: Tue, 11 Jan 2011 23:29:52 -0700
From: alex.wood@...a-denver.org
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: 2011 Rocky Mountain Information Security Conference Call for Papers

Rocky Mountain Information Security Conference
Call for Papers
Friday, May 13, 2011
(PreConference Workshops on Thursday, May 12, 2011)
Sheraton Denver Downtown
Denver, CO 80202
 
DEADLINE FOR PAPER SUBMISSION: FEBRUARY 11, 2011 

Go Here to Submit a Paper:
https://www.eiseverywhere.com/ereg/index.php?eventid=18885&
 
The Rocky Mountain Information Security Conference Organizing Committee is proud to announce the call for papers for the fifth annual Rocky Mountain Information Security Conference on May 13th (PreConference workshops on May 12th), co-hosted by the ISSA Denver and ISACA Denver Chapters. This call for papers ends Saturday, February 11, 2011. 

If your presentation is selected for inclusion in the conference, you will be informed in late February. Submitted papers will also be considered for the PreConference Workshops on Thursday, May 12th.  Those selected to present will receive a complimentary registration for the conference.

Guidelines for Submission

RMISC is looking for presentations covering a variety of current and future Information Technology Security, Auditing, Compliance, Privacy, and Cloud Computing topics. Presentations should be geared toward a Management, Technical, Auditing, Compliance, or IT Governance audience. Based on feedback from conference attendees, presentations should be in-depth and focused on a specific issue or technology. Please try to stay away from overviews or summaries. Hands-on demos and case studies with actionable outcomes are encouraged. Participants want to take away skills and information that they can use.

Presentation lengths will be in 60 or 90 minute blocks. If warranted, a presentation may be given two 60-minute blocks.  Thursday's sessions are approximately 4 hours.  Please plan the content of your presentations accordingly.  
 
For a partial list of security and auditing subjects, click here; however, do not feel obligated to choose a topic from this list in which to categorize your paper. 


Vendor-specific only presentations and sales pitches will not be considered. Please present on the concepts of a product/technology/concept and how the technology will help the attendees. Deviations from this theme will not be tolerated. Under no circumstances will a presentation geared toward a single commercial product be accepted.

Go Here to Submit a Paper: https://www.eiseverywhere.com/ereg/index.php?eventid=18885&
