
Date: Mon, 17 Jul 2006 18:30:29 -0700
From: "h1kari@...rcon.org" <h1kari@...rcon.org>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: ToorCon 2006 Call for Papers

ToorCon 2006 Call for Papers - Issued June 6th 2006

Papers and presentations are being accepted for ToorCon 2006 to be held
at the Convention Center in San Diego, CA on September 29th-October 1st.
Please email your submissions to cfp [at] toorcon.org; submissions will
be accepted until August 18th, 2006.


About ToorCon

ToorCon is just around the corner again this year. In its 8th running
year, it is still San Diego's exclusive hacker convention, bringing
together Southern California's hacker community year after year to
attend the high quality presentations and participate in the annual
festivities. This year we are still aiming to provide the same highly
technical lectures you've come to know and love, but also set the theme
as "Bits & Bites" which will highlight the low level skills of the trade
and focus on Reverse Engineering, Protocol Analysis, Cryptography,
Hardware Hacks, and other nifty bit-twiddling and byte munging
techniques. Once again, we will be offering an intensive full-day Deep
Knowledge Seminar on Friday the 29th that we are also accepting
submissions for.


Submission of Papers

ToorCon only accepts talks on new technologies and methodologies that
have been recently developed. We will not accept papers that have
already been presented prior to 2006, unless they present fundamental
concepts or conform to any of the outlined topics below.

Special consideration will be given to papers addressing the following
topics:

* Reverse Engineering
* Protocol Analysis
* Cryptography
* Hardware Hacks
* Anything related to Bits & Bites, the number 8, and/or includes a
  sweet ascii/ansi art demo :-)

All conference talks should be 50 minutes in length including time for
delegate participation and questions at the end of the presentation.
Deep Knowledge Seminar talks should be 90 minutes in length and should
include hands-on participation for an audience of 25-35 people.
Inclusion of any talk related tools, white papers or source code will
help during the selection process. While we try to facilitate speakers'
requests for equipment, we may not be able to accommodate all requests.
In cases where we cannot guarantee special equipment the speaker is
expected to supply hardware and/or software. Each speaker is also
expected to bring their own laptop to display their presentation.

All talks must be vendor neutral, while speakers are welcome to present
on behalf of a company - sales pitches will be thrown out.


Remuneration

For each chosen presentation ToorCon will give the speaker and 1 guest
free admission to the conference, admission to the Deep Knowledge
Seminars (limited to the first 10 speakers to request admission), and
lots of free drinks :-).


Speaker Requirements

Please include the following information with your submission:

1. What title you are submitting your paper under.
2. A valid e-mail address AND telephone number where you can be
   reached.
3. Number of people that will be presenting.
4. A brief description of your talk and what will be presented
5. A brief biography on why you are qualified to speak on your
   topic. This and your description will be used on
   toorcon.org as well as in any press material for the
   conference.
6. If you are speaking under a company name, please specify for
   which company you work.
7. Will your talk include a sweet ascii/ansi art demo?
8. Would you like to be considered for speaking at the Deep
   Knoweldge Seminars?

For an example of a good submissions, see:

* Chris Abad   - http://toorcon.org/2006/cfp/aempirei.html
* Tom St Denis - http://toorcon.org/2006/cfp/tomstdenis.html

Note that by presenting at ToorCon 2006 you grant ToorCon permission to
reproduce, distribute and/or advertise your talk as seen fit. If your
talk is accepted and because of some emergency you are unable to speak,
you must notify ToorCon within 24 hours of your talk, otherwise ToorCon
reserves the right to tell all the other fellow hacker cons how you
ditched out at the last minute and take it into consideration the next
time you submit a talk :).


Location Information

This year's event will be held at the San Diego Convention Center. The
reception and conference will take place on September 29th-October 1st
in meeting rooms 24-26 at the San Diego Convention Center's (front)
upper level.

September 29th-October 1st, 2006
San Diego Convention Center
111 W. Harbor Drive
San Diego, CA 92101
http://sdccc.org


Important Dates

June 6th, 2006: Official Call For Papers issued
July 28th, 2006: First round of selection announced
August 18th, 2006: Call for Papers closes
September 8th, 2006: Final material submission for collateral
September 29th, 2006: ToorCon 2006
