
Date: Mon, 17 Jul 2006 00:51:56 -0700
From: Dragos Ruiu <dr@....net>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: PacSec 2006 CALL FOR PAPERS (Deadline Aug. 4; Event Nov. 27-30)

url: http://pacsec.jp

PacSec 2006 CALL FOR PAPERS

World Security Pros To Converge on Japan

   TOKYO, Japan -- To address the increasing importance of information
   security in Japan, the best known figures in the international security
   industry will get together with leading Japanese researchers to share
   best practices and technology. The most significant new discoveries
   about computer network hack attacks will be presented at the third
   annual PacSec conference to be discussed.
   
   The PacSec meeting provides an opportunity for foreign specialists to
   be exposed to Japanese innovation and markets and collaborate on
   practical solutions to computer security issues. In a relaxed setting
   with a mixture of material bilingually translated in both English and
   Japanese the eminent technologists can socialize and attend training
   sessions.
   
   Announcing the opportunity to submit papers for the PacSec 2006 applied
   security training conference. The conference will be held November
   27-30th in Tokyo. The conference focuses on emerging information
   security tutorials - it will be a bridge between the international and
   Japanese information security technology communities..
   
   Please make your paper proposal submissions before August 4 2006. Slides
   for the papers must be submitted by October 1st 2006. The conference is
   November 29th and 30th 2006, presenters need to be available in the
   days before to meet with interpreters. The Security Masters Dojo, Tokyo,
   is November 27 -28, 2006. Both events will be held at Aoyama Diamond 
   Hall.
   
   Some invited papers have been confirmed, but a limited number of
   speaking slots are still available. The conference is responsible for
   travel and acommodations for the speakers. If you have a proposal for a
   tutorial session then please email a synopsis of the material and your
   biography, papers and, speaking background to secwest06 [at] pacsec.jp.
   Tutorials are one hour in length, but with simultaneous translation
   should be approximately 45 minutes in English, or Japanese. Only slides
   will be needed for the October paper deadline, full text does not have
   to be submitted.
   
   The PacSec conference consists of tutorials on technical details about
   current issues, innovative techniques and best practices in the
   information security realm. The audiences are a multi-national mix of
   professionals involved on a daily basis with security work: security
   product vendors, programmers, security officers, and network
   administrators. We give preference to technical details and education
   for a technical audience.
   
   The conference itself is a single track series of presentations in a
   lecture theater environment. The presentations offer speakers the
   opportunity to showcase on-going research and collaborate with peers
   while educating and highlighting advancements in security products and
   techniques. The focus is on innovation, tutorials, and education
   instead of product pitches. Some commercial content is tolerated, but
   it needs to be backed up by a technical presenter - either giving a
   valuable tutorial and best practices instruction or detailing
   significant new technology in the products.
   
   Paper proposals should consist of the following information:
   
   1) Presenter, and geographical location (country of origin/passport)
   and contact info (e-mail, postal address, phone, fax).
   2) Employer and/or affiliations.
   3) Brief biography, list of publications and papers.
   4) Any significant presentation and educational experience/background.
   5) Topic synopsis, Proposed paper title, and a one paragraph
   description.
   6) Reason why this material is innovative or significant or an
   important tutorial.
   7) Optionally, any samples of prepared material or outlines ready.
   
   Please forward the above information to secwest06 [at] pacsec.jp to be
   considered for placement on the speaker roster. Please include a plain 
   text version of all the above informaiton along with any other submission
   data/information.

-- 
World Security Pros. Cutting Edge Training, Tools, and Techniques
Tokyo, Japan    November 26-30 2006    http://pacsec.jp
pgpkey http://dragos.com/ kyxpgp
