
Date: Wed, 09 Feb 2005 15:18:18 +0800
From: "organiser@...can.org" <organiser@...can.org>
To: secureshell@...urityfocus.com, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com,
	firewalls@...urityfocus.com, pen-test@...urityfocus.com,
	"@vulnwatch.org; honeypots@...urityfocus.com"@securityfocus.com
Subject: CFP for SyScAN'05


CALL FOR PAPER

SYSCAN’05

SYMPOSIUM ON SECURITY AND ASIA NETWORKING 2005
18-19 AUGUST 2005
SINGAPORE


SYSCAN’05
The Symposium on Security for Asia Network aims to be a very different 
security conference from the rest of the security conferences that the 
information security community in Asia has come to be so familiar and 
frustrated with. SyScAN intends to be a non-product, non-vendor biased 
security conference. It is the aspiration of SyScAN to congregate, in 
Singapore, the best security experts in their various fields, to share 
their research, discovery and experience with all security enthusiasts 
in Asia.

This two-day symposium would be held in a relaxed and informal 
atmosphere, allowing all participants to enjoy themselves whilst 
expanding their knowledge on information security. The conference is 
single tracked and speakers are allocated an hour each for their 
presentation.

SPEAKERS PRIVILEGES
The airfare and accommodation expenses of all selected speaker will be 
covered by the conference organizer on a reimbursement basis. Receipts 
for airfare must be produced. The organizer will also provide breakfast, 
lunch and dinner to all speakers during the conference.

CFP SUBMISSION
CFP submission must include the following information:

   1) Brief biography including list of publications and papers 
published previously.

   2) Proposed presentation title, synopsis and description.

   3) Contact Information (full name, alias, handler, e-mail, postal 
address, phone,
   fax, photo, country of origin, special dietary requirement).

   4) Employment and/or affiliations information.

   5) Any significant presentation and educational experience/background.

   6) Why is your material different or innovative or significant or an 
important tutorial?

All submission must be in English in either MS Office or OpenOffice or 
PDF format. Please send submission to cfp@...can.org. Submission must be 
done no later than 8th May 2005.




IMPORTANT DATES
Final CFP Submission – 8th May 2005
Notification of Acceptance or Rejection – 1st June 2005
Final Accepted Presentation Material Submission – 31st July 2005

TOPICS
The focuses for SyScAN’05 are as follow:

Vulnerabilities
Exploits Technologies
Telecommunication and Mobile Security
Forensic

The scopes of the focus are broad and include, but not restricted to the
following areas:

Vulnerabilities
Assessment and Analysis
•	Reverse Engineering
•	Automated Tools
Operating Systems, Applications, Networks
•	Windows, Linux, BSD, AIX, Unix
•	.NET, Java
•	Network Protocols
•	Secure OS Techniques and Development (e.g. Selinux, grsecurity, RSBAC etc)

Exploit Technologies
•	Exploiting IDS, AV, Hardened OS
•	Application Exploits - macros, scripts, etc.
•	Virus, Worms, Malware and Trojans
•	Database Exploits
•	Tools
•	Shellcode techniques and development (e.g. IMPACT, CANVAS, MOSDEF, 
Metasploit etc)
•	Rootkit techniques and development (e.g. kernel rootkit development, 
detection & prevention)

Telecommunication and Mobile Security
•	Mobile Devices - mobile phones, PDAs, etc.
•	Bluetooth and WLAN
•	3G, GPRS, GSM and CDMA
•	VoIP Security
•	Telecommunication Systems – PSTN etc

Forensic
•	Automated Tools
•	Anti-Forensic Techniques and Developments


New Technologies
•	Events Correlations
•	Incidence and Response
•	Infrastructure Security
•	New or Alternative Security Methodologies
•	Networks, Systems and Application Security

Other
•	Information/Cyber Warfare
•	Information/Cyber Terrorism
•	Enterprise Security Management
•	Compliance Management

OTHER INFORMATION
Please feel free to visit SyScAN’04 website to get a feel what this 
conference is all about – SHARE AND HAVE FUN!

Also lookout here for the latest update on SyScAN’05.

Organiser
SyScAN'05


-- 
No virus found in this outgoing message.
Checked by AVG Anti-Virus.
Version: 7.0.300 / Virus Database: 265.8.6 - Release Date: 2/7/2005



