
Date: Tue, 7 Jan 2014 10:37:51 +0800
From: Hafez Kamal <aphesz@...kinthebox.org>
To: Bugtraq <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: [HITB-Announce] HITB Magazine Issue 10 Out Now

Issue #10 is now available!

Hello readers and welcome to the somewhat overdue Issue 010 of HITB
Magazine. As they say, better late than never!

Since the last issue, we've also changed the HITB Security Conference
Call for Papers submission guidelines to now require speakers to submit
a research 'white paper' to accompany their talk. The first round of
papers came to us via #HITB2013KUL in October and thankfully we now have
loads of AWESOME CONTENT! We've got so much good stuff we could have
probably put together two issues even!

With the new change to the CFP submissions, we've decided to also change
our publication schedule for 2014 to a 'per HITB SecConf' release cycle.
This means you can expect a new magazine approximately every 6 months
which we'll release alongside a HITB Security event.

What else do we have planned for 2014? Well next year also marks the 5th
year anniversary of the HITB Security Conference in Amsterdam and we're
celebrating it in traditional HITB fashion - by adding something special
to our line up - our first ever HITB hacker expo! A 3-day IT security
and technology exhibition unlike anything that's been done before. Think
RSA or Mobile World Congress meets Makerfaire with a generous touch of
HITBSecConf thrown in for good measure. What exactly does that mean?
Imagine an area dedicated to hackerspaces; makers with 3D printers,
laser cutters and other fabrication goodies coupled with TOOOL's Lock
Picking Village, HITB and Mozilla's HackWEEKDAY developer hackathon, our
Capture the Flag 'live hacking' competition and more all wrapped around
a 3-day exhibition with Microsoft and Google as the main anchors. The
cost to attend? ABSOLUTELY NOTHING! Yup, entrance to HITB Haxpo will be
F-R-E-E! Head over to http://haxpo.nl for further details and to
register (we've got a new registration system too!)

On behalf of The HITB Editorial Team, I hope you enjoy this special end
of year issue we've put together and we wish you all a very Happy New
Year, and have a great time ahead!

Download Issue #10 - http://magazine.hackinthebox.org/hitb-magazine.html

Regards,
Hafez Kamal
Hack in The Box (M) Sdn. Bhd
36th Floor, Menara Maxis
Kuala Lumpur City Centre
50088 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel: +603-26157299
Fax: +603-26150088

