
Date: Fri, 5 Mar 2004 12:13:52 -0500 (EST)
From: Ejovi Nuwere <ejovi@...vi.net>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: bloggers@...osecdaily.net
Subject: Infosecdaily.net: Expanding our blogging community.


We are trying to raise awareness about our infosec blogging community,
which I think may be of interest to bugtraq readers. -ejovi

Infosecdaily.net: Expanding our blogging community.

Our focus is on aggregating security news for technologist. The site was
made by security researchers for the public as a free resource and
continues grow. We now aggregate more then one hundred and twenty security
and privacy related news feeds and the list is growing.

Another part of the site that has grown is the blogging section. We
currently monitor more then one hundred bloggers. Now we'd like to bring
this to the attention of other security and privacy bloggers and offer
them an opportunity to speak their mind free of editing and commercial
interference. With consolidation in the security industry, we are
searching for citizen journalists that are willing to speak candidly.

When we begin aggregating security and privacy blogs, we thought we would
see one unified voice, all bloggers would be speaking on the same topic of
the day. However we found the opposite to be true. When all the news
focused on the most recent Microsoft security flaws, bloggers continued to
provide a diverse range of news topics. When bloggers did write about the
Microsoft flaws they were real people dealing with the security issue at
hand, at work or at home.

What the security and privacy industry needs are more voices from the
street, dealing with the issues in the news. We need more citizen
journalist. InfoSecDaily invites those already blogging about these topics
to send us a note bloggers@...osecdaily.net and request to be added to our
feed.

There are a number of wonderful independent writers we have not seen yet.
We encourage those of you writing on privacy & infosec to integrate RSS
feeds into your site and reach a new audience.

Please help us support an independent security voice.

The InfoSecDaily Team,
Ejovi Nuwere, Jose Nazario
http://www.InfoSecDaily.net



