
Date: Thu, 10 Sep 2009 15:40:35 -0500
From: ZDI Disclosures <zdi-disclosures@...pingpoint.com>
To: FD <full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk>,
	bugtraq <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Cc: ZDI Disclosures <zdi-disclosures@...pingpoint.com>
Subject: ZDI-09-063: Apple QuickTime H.264 Nal Unit Length Heap Overflow
 Vulnerability

ZDI-09-063: Apple QuickTime H.264 Nal Unit Length Heap Overflow
Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-09-063
September 10, 2009

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2009-2799

-- Affected Vendors:
Apple

-- Affected Products:
Apple Quicktime

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 8435.
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS, visit:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Apple QuickTime. User interaction is
required to exploit this vulnerability in that the target must visit a
malicious page or open a malicious file.

The specific flaw exists during the parsing of samples from a malformed
MOV file utilizing the H.264 codec. While parsing data to render the
stream, the application will mistrust a length that is used to
initialize a heap chunk that was allocated in a header. If the length is
larger than the size of the chunk allocated, then a memory corruption
will occur leading to code execution under the context of the currently
logged in user.

-- Vendor Response:
Apple has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:

http://support.apple.com/kb/HT3859

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2009-07-28 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2009-09-10 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by:
    * Anonymous
    * Damian Put

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is
used. TippingPoint does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any
exploit code. Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor,
TippingPoint provides its customers with zero day protection through
its intrusion prevention technology. Explicit details regarding the
specifics of the vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until
an official vendor patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the
altruistic aim of helping to secure a broader user base, TippingPoint
provides this vulnerability information confidentially to security
vendors (including competitors) who have a vulnerability protection or
mitigation product.

Our vulnerability disclosure policy is available online at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/disclosure_policy/

