
Date: Thu, 17 Jun 2004 09:26:31 +0100
From: "Hamlesh Motah" <admin@...lesh.com>
To: <rar_bt@...iento.se>, <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: RE: Is predictable spam filtering a vulnerability?


Interesting insight that, in most cases I'd think B and C are likely to be
on the same network, possibly protected by the same spam filtering, meaning
that A's email wouldn't reach B.  I know this isn't always the case, just my
thoughts on it.

The above would help reduce the probability of finding a scenario where this
would work, that said securing against social engineering attacks is a tad
challenging :)

Again all of the above just my two cents.

Kind regards.

Hamlesh Motah.
IT Consultant.

tel: +44 (0)709 212 0732
fax: +44 (0)709 212 0732
ema: admin@...lesh.com
web: www.hamlesh.com

Hamlesh Consultants - IT Consultancy - Total Solutions Provider.

The Information contained in this E-Mail and any subsequent correspondence
is private and is intended solely for the intended recipient(s). For those
other than the recipient any disclosure, copying, distribution, or any
action taken or omitted to be taken in reliance on such information is
prohibited and may be unlawful.


: -----Original Message-----
: From: R Armiento [mailto:rar_bt@...iento.se] 
: Sent: 16 June 2004 11:26
: To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
: Subject: Is predictable spam filtering a vulnerability?
: 
: 
: 
: During a recent email conversation with several participants, 
: we discovered that the email service of one participant 
: silently dropped legitimate emails that happened to contain 
: certain combinations of words common in spam. I believe this 
: sort of filter is common practice, and in fact even in place 
: for some of my own email addresses.
: 
: However, this experience made me think: isn't predictable 
: spam filtering in general a vulnerability that could be used 
: as a hoax device? Since most users reply to an email citing 
: the complete source email, including filter-offending words, 
: it should be possible to keep a reply, forward, or even a 
: whole thread, under the radar of specific recipients. If used 
: in combination with forged replies from addresses predictably 
: dropping emails, I think this may be a dangerous tool for 
: social engineering. 
: 
: For example: attacker 'A' sends 'B' a social engineering 
: request for "the secret plans" and says "if you are unsure, 
: forward my request to your boss and ask if this is okay". 'B' 
: forwards the email to his boss 'C' and asks "Is this okay?". 
: However, 'C':s spam filter silently drops the email. 'A' 
: forges a reply from 'C' saying: "Sure, no problem, go ahead."
: 
: Regards,
: R. Armiento
: 



