
Date: Fri, 3 May 2019 07:26:26 +0000 (UTC)
From: InfoSec News <alerts@...osecnews.org>
To: isn@...ts.infosecnews.org
Subject: [Newsletter/Marketing] [ISN] Executive Order on America's
 Cybersecurity Workforce

https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/executive-order-americas-cybersecurity-workforce/

Issued on: May 2, 2019

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of 
the United States of America, and to better ensure continued American economic 
prosperity and national security, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Policy.  (a)  America’s cybersecurity workforce is a strategic 
asset that protects the American people, the homeland, and the American way of 
life.  The National Cyber Strategy, the President’s 2018 Management Agenda, and 
Executive Order 13800 of May 11, 2017 (Strengthening the Cybersecurity of 
Federal Networks and Critical Infrastructure), each emphasize that a superior 
cybersecurity workforce will promote American prosperity and preserve peace. 
America’s cybersecurity workforce is a diverse group of practitioners who 
govern, design, defend, analyze, administer, operate, and maintain the data, 
systems, and networks on which our economy and way of life depend.  Whether 
they are employed in the public or private sectors, they are guardians of our 
national and economic security.

b)  The United States Government must enhance the workforce mobility of 
America’s cybersecurity practitioners to improve America’s national 
cybersecurity.  During their careers, America’s cybersecurity practitioners 
will serve in various roles for multiple and diverse entities.  United States 
Government policy must facilitate the seamless movement of cybersecurity 
practitioners between the public and private sectors, maximizing the 
contributions made by their diverse skills, experiences, and talents to our 
Nation.

(c)  The United States Government must support the development of cybersecurity 
skills and encourage ever-greater excellence so that America can maintain its 
competitive edge in cybersecurity.  The United States Government must also 
recognize and reward the country’s highest-performing cybersecurity 
practitioners and teams.

(d)  The United States Government must create the organizational and 
technological tools required to maximize the cybersecurity talents and 
capabilities of American workers –-especially when those talents and 
capabilities can advance our national and economic security.  The Nation is 
experiencing a shortage of cybersecurity talent and capability, and innovative 
approaches are required to improve access to training that maximizes 
individuals’ cybersecurity knowledge, skills, and abilities. Training 
opportunities, such as work-based learning, apprenticeships, and blended 
learning approaches, must be enhanced for both new workforce entrants and those 
who are advanced in their careers.

(e)  In accordance with Executive Order 13800, the President will continue to 
hold heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) accountable for 
managing cybersecurity risk to their enterprises, which includes ensuring the 
effectiveness of their cybersecurity workforces.

Sec. 2.  Strengthening the Federal Cybersecurity Workforce.  (a)  To grow the 
cybersecurity capability of the United States Government, increase integration 
of the Federal cybersecurity workforce, and strengthen the skills of Federal 
information technology and cybersecurity practitioners, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, in consultation with the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget (OMB) and the Director of the Office of Personnel 
Management (OPM), shall establish a cybersecurity rotational assignment 
program, which will serve as a mechanism for knowledge transfer and a 
development program for cybersecurity practitioners.  Within 90 days of the 
date of this order, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with 
the Directors of OMB and OPM, shall provide a report to the President that 
describes the proposed program, identifies its resource implications, and 
recommends actions required for its implementation.  The report shall evaluate 
how to achieve the following objectives, to the extent permitted by applicable 
law, as part of the program:

(i)    The non-reimbursable detail of information technology and cybersecurity 
employees, who are nominated by their employing agencies, to serve at the 
Department of Homeland Security (DHS);

(ii)   The non-reimbursable detail of experienced cybersecurity DHS employees 
to other agencies to assist in improving those agencies’ cybersecurity risk 
management;

(iii)  The use of the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education 
Cybersecurity Workforce Framework (NICE Framework) as the basis for 
cybersecurity skill requirements for program participants;

(iv)   The provision of training curricula and expansion of learning 
experiences to develop participants’ skill levels; and

(v)    Peer mentoring to enhance workforce integration.

(b)  Consistent with applicable law and to the maximum extent practicable, the 
Administrator of General Services, in consultation with the Director of OMB and 
the Secretary of Commerce, shall:

(i)    Incorporate the NICE Framework lexicon and taxonomy into workforce 
knowledge and skill requirements used in contracts for information technology 
and cybersecurity services;

(ii)   Ensure that contracts for information technology and cybersecurity 
services include reporting requirements that will enable agencies to evaluate 
whether personnel have the necessary knowledge and skills to perform the tasks 
specified in the contract, consistent with the NICE Framework; and

(iii)  Provide a report to the President, within 1 year of the date of this 
order, that describes how the NICE Framework has been incorporated into 
contracts for information technology and cybersecurity services, evaluates the 
effectiveness of this approach in improving services provided to the United 
States Government, and makes recommendations to increase the effective use of 
the NICE Framework by United States Government contractors.

(c)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Director of OPM, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, and the heads of other agencies as appropriate, shall identify a list 
of cybersecurity aptitude assessments for agencies to use in identifying 
current employees with the potential to acquire cybersecurity skills for 
placement in reskilling programs to perform cybersecurity work. Agencies shall 
incorporate one or more of these assessments into their personnel development 
programs, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

(d)  Agencies shall ensure that existing awards and decorations for the 
uniformed services and civilian personnel recognize performance and 
achievements in the areas of cybersecurity and cyber-operations, including by 
ensuring the availability of awards and decorations equivalent to citations 
issued pursuant to Executive Order 10694 of January 10, 1957 (Authorizing the 
Secretaries of the Army, Navy, and Air Force To Issue Citations in the Name of 
the President of the United States to Military and Naval Units for Outstanding 
Performance in Action), as amended.  Where necessary and appropriate, agencies 
shall establish new awards and decorations to recognize performance and 
achievements in the areas of cybersecurity and cyber-operations.  The Assistant 
to the President for National Security Affairs may recommend to agencies that 
any cyber unified coordination group or similar ad hoc interagency group that 
has addressed a significant cybersecurity or cyber-operations-related national 
security crisis, incident, or effort be recognized for appropriate awards and 
decorations.

(e)  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Defense, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the 
Director of OMB, and the heads of other appropriate agencies, shall develop a 
plan for an annual cybersecurity competition (President’s Cup Cybersecurity 
Competition) for Federal civilian and military employees.  The goal of the 
competition shall be to identify, challenge, and reward the United States 
Government’s best cybersecurity practitioners and teams across offensive and 
defensive cybersecurity disciplines.  The plan shall be submitted to the 
President within 90 days of the date of this order.  The first competition 
shall be held no later than December 31, 2019, and annually thereafter.  The 
plan for the competition shall address the following:

(i)    The challenges and benefits of inviting advisers, participants, or 
observers from non-Federal entities to observe or take part in the competition 
and recommendations for including them in future competitions, as appropriate;

(ii)   How the Department of Energy, through the National Laboratories, in 
consultation with the Administrator of the United States Digital Service, can 
provide expert technical advice and assistance to support the competition, as 
appropriate;

(iii)  The parameters for the competition, including the     development of 
multiple individual and team events that test cybersecurity skills related to 
the NICE Framework and other relevant skills, as appropriate. These parameters 
should include competition categories involving individual and team events, 
software reverse engineering and exploitation, network operations, forensics, 
big data analysis, cyber analysis, cyber defense, cyber exploitation, secure 
programming, obfuscated coding, cyber-physical systems, and other disciplines;

(iv)   How to encourage agencies to select their best cybersecurity 
practitioners as individual and team participants.  Such practitioners should 
include Federal employees and uniformed services personnel from Federal 
civilian agencies, as well as Department of Defense active duty military 
personnel, civilians, and those serving in a drilling reserve capacity in the 
Armed Forces Reserves or National Guard;

(v)    The extent to which agencies, as well as uniformed services, may develop 
a President’s Cup awards program that is consistent with applicable law and 
regulations governing awards and that allows for the provision of cash awards 
of not less than $25,000.  Any such program shall require the agency to 
establish an awards program before allowing its employees to participate in the 
President’s Cup Cybersecurity Competition. In addition, any such program may 
not preclude agencies from recognizing winning and non-winning participants 
through other means, including honorary awards, informal recognition awards, 
rating-based cash awards, time-off awards, Quality Step Increases, or other 
agency-based compensation flexibilities as appropriate and consistent with 
applicable law; and

(vi)   How the uniformed services, as appropriate and consistent with 
applicable law, may designate service members who win these competitions as 
having skills at a time when there is a critical shortage of such skills within 
the uniformed services.  The plan should also address how the uniformed 
services may provide winning service members with a combination of bonuses, 
advancements, and meritorious recognition to be determined by the Secretaries 
of the agencies concerned.

(f)  The Director of OMB shall, in consultation with appropriate agencies, 
develop annually a list of agencies and subdivisions related to cybersecurity 
that have a primary function of intelligence, counterintelligence, 
investigative, or national security work, including descriptions of such 
functions.  The Director of OMB shall provide this list to the President, 
through the Deputy Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and 
Counterterrorism (DAPHSCT), every year starting September 1, 2019, for 
consideration of whether those agencies or subdivisions should be exempted from 
coverage under the Federal Labor-Management Relations Program, consistent with 
the requirements of section 7103(b)(1) of title 5, United States Code.

Sec. 3.  Strengthening the Nation’s Cybersecurity Workforce.  (a)  The 
Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Homeland Security (Secretaries), in 
coordination with the Secretary of Education and the heads of other agencies as 
the Secretaries determine is appropriate, shall execute, consistent with 
applicable law and to the greatest extent practicable, the recommendations from 
the report to the President on Supporting the Growth and Sustainment of the 
Nation’s Cybersecurity Workforce (Workforce Report) developed pursuant to 
Executive Order 13800. The Secretaries shall develop a consultative process 
that includes Federal, State, territorial, local, and tribal governments, 
academia, private-sector stakeholders, and other relevant partners to assess 
and make recommendations to address national cybersecurity workforce needs and 
to ensure greater mobility in the American cybersecurity workforce.  To fulfill 
the Workforce Report’s vision of preparing, growing, and sustaining a national 
cybersecurity workforce that safeguards and promotes America’s national 
security and economic prosperity, priority consideration will be given to the 
following imperatives:

(i)    To launch a national Call to Action to draw attention to and mobilize 
public- and private-sector resources to address cybersecurity workforce needs;

(ii)   To transform, elevate, and sustain the cybersecurity learning 
environment to grow a dynamic and diverse cybersecurity workforce;

(iii)  To align education and training with employers’ cybersecurity workforce 
needs, improve coordination, and prepare individuals for lifelong careers; and

(iv)   To establish and use measures that demonstrate the effectiveness and 
impact of cybersecurity workforce investments.

(b)  To strengthen the ability of the Nation to identify and mitigate 
cybersecurity vulnerabilities in critical infrastructure and defense systems, 
particularly cyber-physical systems for which safety and reliability depend on 
secure control systems, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
Transportation, the Secretary of Energy, and the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, in coordination with the Director of OPM and the Secretary of Labor, 
shall provide a report to the President, through the DAPHSCT, within 180 days 
of the date of this order that:

(i)   Identifies and evaluates skills gaps in Federal and non-Federal 
cybersecurity personnel and training gaps for specific critical infrastructure 
sectors, defense critical infrastructure, and the Department of Defense’s 
platform information technologies; and

(ii)  Recommends curricula for closing the identified skills gaps for Federal 
personnel and steps the United States Government can take to close such gaps 
for non-Federal personnel by, for example, supporting the development of 
similar curricula by education or training providers.

(c)  Within 1 year of the date of this order, the Secretary of Education, in 
consultation with the DAPHSCT and the National Science Foundation, shall 
develop and implement, consistent with applicable law, an annual Presidential 
Cybersecurity Education Award to be presented to one elementary and one 
secondary school educator per year who best instill skills, knowledge, and 
passion with respect to cybersecurity and cybersecurity-related subjects.  In 
developing and implementing this award, the Secretary of Education shall 
emphasize demonstrated superior educator accomplishment — without respect to 
research, scholarship, or technology development — as well as academic 
achievement by the educator’s students.

(d)  The Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of 
Education, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the heads of other 
appropriate agencies shall encourage the voluntary integration of the NICE 
Framework into existing education, training, and workforce development efforts 
undertaken by State, territorial, local, tribal, academic, non‑profit, and 
private-sector entities, consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of 
Commerce shall provide annual updates to the President regarding effective uses 
of the NICE Framework by non-Federal entities and make recommendations for 
improving the application of the NICE Framework in cybersecurity education, 
training, and workforce development.

Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to 
impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the 
head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, 
administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject 
to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, 
substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against 
the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, 
employees, or agents, or any other person.

DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 2, 2019.


--
Subscribe to InfoSec News
https://www.infosecnews.org/subscribe-to-infosec-news/
https://twitter.com/infosecnews_

