
Date: Mon, 25 Feb 2008 01:26:00 +0300
From: Solar Designer <solar@...nwall.com>
To: oss-security@...ts.openwall.com
Subject: Re: charter - advisories

On Wed, Feb 20, 2008 at 12:26:21PM -0700, Vincent Danen wrote:
> Hmmm... maybe we should clarify the advisories we don't want to see.  I
> guess advisories from, say, iDefense, would be valuable.  But advisories
> from Mandriva or SUSE not so much.
> 
> Maybe we should indicate no *vendor* advisories,

I think this is pretty much what we did already.  From the charter:

Security advisories aimed at end-users only are not welcome (e.g., those
from a distribution vendor announcing new pre-built packages).  There has
to be desirable information for others in the Open Source community
(e.g., an upstream maintainer may announce a new version of their
software with security fixes to be picked up by distributors).

If you can word this better, please go ahead and edit it on the wiki.

> and make a second list specifically for that?

I'd be happy to make such a list if there's demand - is there?  Let me
address this question to those vendors (represented in here) who
currently copy their advisories to Bugtraq - will you start sending them
to this new special-purpose list?  If so, will you discontinue sending
them to Bugtraq, suggesting that whoever wants to receive all-vendor
advisories should subscribe the new special-purpose list?  I think this
could help us reclaim Bugtraq as a general security discussion list.

Note that Bugtraq will remain quite different from oss-security even if
reclaimed as a discussion list.  oss-security is for people involved
with OSS projects (although others are welcome to listen to our
conversations) and for detailed discussions of source code patches, etc.
when that is needed.  Bugtraq is for everyone, including end-users and
closed-source folks - and it is large-scale, meaning that discussions of
individual issues should not run for too long and get into minor detail.

Also, a question to those vendors (represented in here) who don't copy
their advisories to Bugtraq currently (too shy or polite) - will you
start sending them to this new special-purpose list?

Thanks,

Alexander
