
Date: Tue, 10 Oct 2006 13:08:31 -0700
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-06-032: Microsoft Office PowerPoint Malformed Slide Notes Rebuilding
 Vulnerability

ZDI-06-032: Microsoft Office PowerPoint Malformed Slide Notes Rebuilding
            Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-06-032.html
October 10, 2006

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2006-3435

-- Affected Vendor:
Microsoft

-- Affected Products:
Microsoft Office 2000 SP3
Microsoft Office XP SP3
Microsoft Office 2003 SP1 / SP2
Microsoft Office 2004 for Mac
Microsoft Office v.X for Mac

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since October 10, 2006 by Digital Vaccine protection
filter ID 4770. For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Microsoft Office. Exploitation requires
that the attacker coerce the target user into opening a malicious .PPT
file.

The specific flaw exists during the parsing of a malformed slide notes
field within the PowerPoint presentation. When PowerPoint attempts to
rebuild the malformed section, a pointer calculation is made based on
attacker controlled data from within the file. This pointer is later
dereferenced and can lead to arbitrary code execution with the
privileges of the user who opened the malicious file.

-- Vendor Response:
Microsoft has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:

http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/Bulletin/MS06-058.mspx

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2006.06.14 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2006.10.10 - Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint customers
2006.10.10 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by Arnaud Dovi aka 'class101', 
http://heapoverflow.com.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.
