
Date: Tue, 21 Jul 2015 17:23:25 +0100
From: "Maria Lemos" <marialemos72@...il.com>
To: BugTraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: WorldCIST'2016 - Brazil: Call for Workshops Proposals - Best Papers
 published by ISI/SCI Journals

-----------
CALL FOR WORKSHOPS PROPOSALS
WorldCIST'16 - 4th World Conference on Information Systems and Technologies 
Recife, PE, Brazil
22th-24th of March 2016
http://www.aisti.eu/worldcist16/
-------------------------------------------

WORKSHOP FORMAT

The Information Systems and Technologies research and industrial community is invited to submit proposals of Workshops for WorldCist'16 – 4th World Conference on Information Systems and Technologies to be held at Recife, PE, Brazil, 22th-24th of March 2016.

Workshops should focus on a specific scientific subject on the scope of WorldCist'16 but not directly included on the main conference areas. Each workshop will be coordinated by an Organizing Committee composed of, at least, two researchers in the field, preferably from different institutions and different countries. The organizers should create an international Program Committee for the Workshop, with recognized researchers within the specific Workshop scientific area. Each workshop should have at least 10 submissions and 5 accepted papers in order to be conducted at WorldCist'16.

The selection of Workshops will be performed by WorldCist'16 Conference/Workshop Chairs. Workshops full and short papers will be published in the conference main proceedings in specific Workshop chapters published by Springer in a book of the AISC series. Proceedings will be submitted for indexation by ISI Thomson, SCOPUS, DBLP, EI-Compendex among several other scientific databases. Extended versions of best selected papers will be published in journals indexed by ISI/SCI, SCOPUS and DBLP. Detailed and up-to-date information may be found at WorldCist'16 website: http://www.aisti.eu/worldcist16/

WORKSHOP ORGANIZATION

The Organizing Committee of each Workshop will be responsible for:
-    Producing and distributing the Workshop Call for Papers (CFP);
-    Coordinating the review and selection process for the papers submitted to the Workshop, as Workshop chairs (on the paper submission system to be installed);
-    Delivering the final versions of the papers accepted for the Workshop in accordance with the guidelines and deadlines defined by WorldCist'16 organizers;
-    Coordinating and chairing the Workshop sessions at the conference.
WorldCist'16 organizers reserve the right to cancel any Workshop if deadlines are missed or if the number of registered attendees is too low to support the costs associated with the Workshop.

PROPOSAL CONTENT

Workshop proposals should contain the following information:
-    Workshop title;
-    Brief description of the specific scientific scope of the Workshop;
-    List of topics of interest (max 15 topics);
-    Reasons the Workshop should be held within WorldCist’16;
-    Name, postal address, phone and email of all the members of the Workshop Organizing Committee;
-    Proposal for the Workshop Program Committee (Names and affiliations).

Proposals should be submitted electronically by email to worldcist at gmail.com (cc: lpreis at dsi.uminho.pt), in PDF, (in English), by July 30, 2015.

IMPORTANT DATES

-    Deadline for Workshop proposals: July 30, 2015
-    Notification of Workshop acceptance: August 7, 2015
-    Deadline for paper submission: November 14, 2015
-    Notification of paper acceptance: December 13, 2015
-    Deadline for final versions and conference registration: December 27, 2015
-    Conference dates: March 22-24, 2016

CHAIR
Luis Paulo Reis, AISTI, IEEE & University of Minho, PT

Regards,

WorldCIST'16 Team
http://www.aisti.eu/worldcist16/


