
Date: Fri, 11 Jul 2003 08:51:22 -0400
From: "iDEFENSE Labs" <labs@...fense.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: iDEFENSE Security Advisory 07.11.03: Win32 Message Vulnerabilities Redux


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

iDEFENSE Security Advisory 07.11.03:
http://www.idefense.com/advisory/07.11.03.txt
Win32 Message Vulnerabilities Redux
July 11, 2003

About one year ago, Chris Paget published a pair of papers that
described fundamental flaws in the way the Microsoft Corp. Windows
event model is designed. Paget showed how these flaws led to a class of
attacks he dubbed "Shatter attacks," and claimed that they were both
widespread and unfixable. The boldness of these claims led to a rash of
media coverage of this exploit, and a sizeable debate within the
security community about the accuracy and importance of his claims. In
response to the pressure exerted by this attention, Microsoft published
security bulletin MS02-071 and an associated patch, which has led many
to believe that Shatter attacks are no longer possible.

iDEFENSE has published a paper written by Oliver Lavery that clarifies
what the flaws in the Windows event model are, describes a related
vulnerability that continues to exist in many popular software products
and suggests ways in which these "unfixable" flaws might be addressed.
Titled "Win32 Message Vulnerabilities Redux," the paper is available at
http://www.idefense.com/idpapers/Shatter_Redux.pdf .  The appropriate
vendors mentioned within received an advance copy of this paper.


Get paid for security research
http://www.idefense.com/contributor.html

Subscribe to iDEFENSE Advisories:
send email to listserv@...fense.com, subject line: "subscribe"


About iDEFENSE:

iDEFENSE is a global security intelligence company that proactively
monitors sources throughout the world - from technical
vulnerabilities and hacker profiling to the global spread of viruses
and other malicious code. Our security intelligence services provide
decision-makers, frontline security professionals and network
administrators with timely access to actionable intelligence
and decision support on cyber-related threats. For more information,
visit http://www.idefense.com .



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGP 8.0

iQA/AwUBPw6rlfrkky7kqW5PEQJeLgCZARhd4z3PataAdcYr1D+qJfn5HiUAnAu3
9NVvCks9nOi9SojuaeeyQKl7
=3dy3
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----



