
Date: Thu, 9 Feb 2006 17:05:47 -0800
From: Layer One <layeronecfp@...il.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: LayerOne 2006 - Event Update and Announcement


LayerOne - 2006
April 15-16, 2006
Pasadena Hilton
Pasadena, CA
http://layerone.info

Initial LayerOne speaker line-up

Since the opening of our CFP cycle we have been recieving quite a few
papers from a wide background of indivduals. Recently we have begun
accepting talks for this years event. There are still a few open
speaking slots, but new speakers are being added weekly. If you were
thinking of submitting a talk for this years event, now would be a
good time to get it into us! Currently slated to speak are:

Enno Rey - MPLS/VPLS security
Strom Carlson - Smart Card Insecurities
Datagram - Introduction to Lockpicking
Ken Caruso - The Seattle Wireless Project: 6 Years Later
Valkyrie - Hacking the Regs! Your Guide to HIPPA, SOX, and GLBA
Paul Henry - Anti-Forensics
Dr. Kaos - Anonym.OS

With our current accepted speaker line-up we are already very
confident that a wide variety of material will be presented. We have
several other speakers that we are in the final phases of accepting,
along with one or two still empty slots.

LayerOne Pre-Registration is now open

Pre-registration for this years LayerOne event is now open. Tickets
are available online for $60.00USD through our website. Tickets will
also be available at the door, but the cost will be $80.00USD. There
is also the chance we will hit maximum occupancy with our
pre-registration, in which case tickets will not be available at the
door. So, guarantee your seat today by pre-registering. We also offer
group discounts if you are interested in attending with your company,
group, LUG, or other user group. Please visit
http://layerone.info/prereg.html for more information.

We would also like to thank those that have been supporting us in what
we do. Big thanks go out to Shmoocon, Toorcon, LA2600, SCALE, and
everyone else who has helped us! We look forward to seeing you in
Pasadena in April!


