
Date: 12 Jul 2006 19:58:42 -0000
From: research@...antec.com
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: SYMSA-2006-004 (Full Details): Vulnerability in Graphics
 Rendering Engine Could Allow Remote Code Execution


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

		Symantec Vulnerability Research
		http://www.symantec.com/research
			Security Advisory

Advisory ID   : SYMSA-2006-004
Advisory Title: Vulnerability in Graphics Rendering Engine Could
		Allow Remote Code Execution
Author        : Peter Ferrie / peter_ferrie@...antec.com
Release Date  : 06-13-2006 (no details), 07-13-2006 (full details)
Application   : Those which utilize the vulnerable function on
		affected platforms
Platform      : Windows 98, Windows 98 Second Edition, Windows
		Millennium Edition
Severity      : Remotely exploitable arbitrary code execution
Vendor status : Vendor verified, patch available (See MS06-026
		and KB918547)
CVE Number    : CVE-2006-2376
Reference     : http://www.securityfocus.com/bid/18322


Overview:

	A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the
	Graphics Rendering Engine because of the way that it
	handles Windows Metafile (WMF) images.

	An attacker could exploit this by placing a specially
	crafted WMF or EMF image on a webpage, or by sending
	the image as an attachment in an e-mail.  The exploit
	is triggered by viewing the specially crafted image
	file.  No user interaction is required.

	An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability
	could take complete control of the affected system.


Details:

	A heap overflow vulnerability exists in the WMF
	PolyPolygon function, because of an unchecked user-
	supplied parameter.

	Specifically, an integer overflow can occur because
	the sum of the entries in the vertex counts array is
	added to the number of polygons, then multiplied by
	six. This calculation is done without checking if the
	result overflows a 32-bit integer.

	The result is passed to a memory allocation routine,
	which will allocate a small memory buffer when an integer
	overflow occurs.  The allocated buffer will then be filled
	by the vertex data, which exceeds the size of the buffer,
	causing heap corruption.

	The manner of the heap corruption is under user control,
	which can result in the execution of arbitrary code.


Vendor Response:

	The above vulnerability was addressed for the affected
	platforms via Microsoft Security Bulletin MS06-026. If
	there are any further questions about this statement,
	please contact secure@...rosoft.com.


Recommendation:

	Follow your organization's testing procedures before
	applying patches or workarounds.  Customers should apply
	Microsoft's update as soon as possible.


Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) Information:

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project has assigned
the following names to these issues.  These are candidates for
inclusion in the CVE list (http://cve.mitre.org), which standardizes
names for security problems.


	CVE-2006-2376

- -------Symantec Vulnerability Research Advisory Information-------

For questions about this advisory, or to report an error:
research@...antec.com

For details on Symantec's Vulnerability Reporting Policy:
http://www.symantec.com/research/Symantec-Responsible-Disclosure.pdf

Symantec Vulnerability Research Advisory Archive:
http://www.symantec.com/research/

Symantec Vulnerability Research GPG Key:
http://www.symantec.com/research/Symantec_Vulnerability_Research_GPG.asc

- -------------Symantec Product Advisory Information-------------

To Report a Security Vulnerability in a Symantec Product:
secure@...antec.com

For general information on Symantec's Product Vulnerability
reporting and response:
http://www.symantec.com/security/

Symantec Product Advisory Archive:
http://www.symantec.com/avcenter/security/SymantecAdvisories.html

Symantec Product Advisory PGP Key:
http://www.symantec.com/security/Symantec-Vulnerability-Management-Key.asc

- ---------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright (c) 2006 by Symantec Corp.
Permission to redistribute this alert electronically is granted
as long as it is not edited in any way unless authorized by
Symantec Consulting Services. Reprinting the whole or part of
this alert in any medium other than electronically requires
permission from cs_advisories@...antec.com.

Disclaimer
The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate at the
time of publishing based on currently available information. Use
of the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS
condition. There are no warranties with regard to this information.
Neither the author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any
direct, indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use
of, or reliance on, this information.

Symantec, Symantec products, and Symantec Consulting Services are
registered trademarks of Symantec Corp. and/or affiliated companies
in the United States and other countries. All other registered and
unregistered trademarks represented in this document are the sole
property of their respective companies/owners.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.0 (Cygwin)

iD8DBQFEsqEuuk7IIFI45IARAr0cAJ0UkjhN0J8D82Gul4VzNTewqbekaQCgpf5P
jJ7zkjABVUUmAcYaCIMvE/I=
=MWbu
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----


