
Date: Tue, 2 Jun 2009 12:21:37 -0500
From: ZDI Disclosures <zdi-disclosures@...pingpoint.com>
To: FD <full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk>,
	bugtraq <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Cc: ZDI Disclosures <zdi-disclosures@...pingpoint.com>
Subject: ZDI-09-025: Apple Quicktime Picture Viewer FLC Delta-Encoded Frame
 Decompression Vulnerability

ZDI-09-025: Apple Quicktime Picture Viewer FLC Delta-Encoded Frame
Decompression Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-09-025
June 2, 2009

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2009-0951

-- Affected Vendors:
Apple

-- Affected Products:
Apple Quicktime

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 6570.
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS, visit:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of QuickTime Player. User interaction is
required to exploit this vulnerability in that the target must either
open a malicious file, or visit a malicious web page.

The specific flaw exists during decompression of a delta-encoded chunk.
The algorithm to decompress the frame trusts a line specifier when
calculating where to write decompressed data. This results in a relative
write using attacker supplied values which can lead to remove code
execution under the context of the current user.

-- Vendor Response:
Apple has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:

http://support.apple.com/kb/HT3591

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2008-10-28 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2009-06-02 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by:
    * Anonymous

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is
used. TippingPoint does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any
exploit code. Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor,
TippingPoint provides its customers with zero day protection through
its intrusion prevention technology. Explicit details regarding the
specifics of the vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until
an official vendor patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the
altruistic aim of helping to secure a broader user base, TippingPoint
provides this vulnerability information confidentially to security
vendors (including competitors) who have a vulnerability protection or
mitigation product.

Our vulnerability disclosure policy is available online at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/disclosure_policy/

