
Date: Mon, 2 Oct 2006 22:06:12 -0700
From: Dragos Ruiu <dr@....net>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: PacSec 2006 Papers announcement and EUSecWest Call For Papers 

The PacSec 2006 paper selections have been announced:

   Smashing Heap by Free Simulation - Sandip Chaudhari

   Methods of increasing source code security automatically - Ben Chelf, 
Coverity

   IPTV: Triple Play Triple Threats - YM Chen, McAfee

   Windows Vista Security Model - Matt Conover, Symantec

   Mobile IPV6, Les Problemes - Arnaud Ebalard & Guillaume Valadom, EADS, 
University of Tokyo

   Threats against and protection of Microsoft's internal network - Greg 
Galford, Microsoft 

   Native IPV6 in Windows Vista - Abolade Gbadegesin, Microsoft 

   Linux Kernel == Security Nightmare - Marcel Holtmann, Red Hat

   On XSRF(Cross Site Session Riding) and why you should care - Martin Johns, 
University of Hamburg

   hacking fingerprint recognition systems - Jan Krissler, Fraunhofer 
Institute

   OpenOffice/OpenDocument and MS OpenXML security - Philippe Lagadec, French 
Ministry of Defence

   Windows Defender - Adam Overton, Microsoft 

   VM Based Intrusion Detection System - Nguyen Anh Quynh, Keio University

   Strong cryptographic payload obfuscation and encryption - Ariel Waissbein, 
Core Security Technologies

   Undermining Security in Vista WCF - Marc Schoenefeld

   IPV6 Mapping - Yuji Ukai & Ryan Permeh, eeye

   MSKK Security Fundamentals - TBA, Microsoft

More details and registration at http://pacsec.jp

------------------------------------------
EUSecWest CALL FOR PAPERS
------------------------------------------
   LONDON, U.K. -- The second annual EUSecWest applied technical
   security conference - where the eminent figures in the international
   security industry will get together share best practices and
   technology - will be held in downtown London at the the Victoria Park
   Plaza hotel in March 1-2 2007. The most significant new discoveries
   about computer network hack attacks and defenses, commercial security
   solutions, and pragmatic real world security experience will be
   presented in a series of informative tutorials.

   The EUSecWest meeting provides international researchers a relaxed,
   comfortable environment to learn from informative tutorials on key
   developments in security technology, and collaborate and socialize
   with their peers in one of the world's most central cities.

   In addition to the usual one hour tutorials, panel sessions and highly
   entertaining 5 minute "lightning" talks, this conference will also
   feature a new session called "Elevator Focus Groups". Featuring
   several short sessions, these commercial presentations will showcase
   new, significantly used, or dramatically innovative new products in
   the information security realm. Each selected vendor will have a short
   10 minute presentation ("elevator pitch"), after which 10 minutes of
   audience Q&A and interactive discussion amongst the expert security
   practitioners attending will follow. In this session both the audience
   and the vendors can get valuable feedback from world leading experts
   and the attendees can get user evaluations and learn from sharing
   experiences and real world security applications about practical uses
   of the products - the "focus group." Hence the name: Elevator Focus
   Groups.

   The EUSecWest conference will also feature the availability of the
   Security Masters Dojo expert network security sensei instructors, and
   their advanced, and intermediate, hands-on training courses -
   featuring small class sizes and practical application excercises to
   maximize information transfer.

   We would like to announce the opportunity to submit papers, lightning
   talk proposals, and elevator focus candidate products for selection by
   the EUSecWest technical review committee.

   Please make your paper proposal submissions before October 20th,
   2006. Slides for the papers must be submitted by January 15th, 2007.

   Some invited papers have been confirmed, but a limited number of
   speaking slots are still available. The conference is responsible for
   travel and accomodations for the speakers. If you have a proposal for
   a tutorial session then please email a synopsis of the material and
   your biography, papers and, speaking background to 
   secwest07@...ecwest.com. Only slides will be needed for 
   the March paper deadline, full text does not have to be 
   submitted - but will be accepted if available.

   The EUSecWest 2007 conference consists of tutorials on technical
   details about current issues, innovative techniques and best practices
   in the information security realm. The audiences are a multi-national
   mix of professionals involved on a daily basis with security work:
   security product vendors, programmers, security officers, and network
   administrators. We give preference to technical details and new
   education for a technical audience.

   The conference itself is a single track series of presentations in a
   lecture theater environment. The presentations offer speakers the
   opportunity to showcase on-going research and collaborate with peers
   while educating and highlighting advancements in security products and
   techniques. The focus is on innovation, tutorials, and education
   instead of product pitches. Some commercial content is tolerated, but
   it needs to be backed up by a technical presenter - either giving a
   valuable tutorial and best practices instruction or detailing
   significant new technology in the products.

   Paper proposals should consist of the following information:
    1. Presenter, and geographical location (country of origin/passport)
       and contact info (e-mail, postal address, phone, fax).
    2. Employer and/or affiliations.
    3. Brief biography, list of publications and papers.
    4. Any significant presentation and educational
       experience/background.
    5. Topic synopsis, Proposed paper title, and a one paragraph
       description.
    6. Reason why this material is innovative or significant or an
       important tutorial.
    7. Optionally, any samples of prepared material or outlines ready.
    8. Will you have full text available or only slides?
    9. Please list any other publications or conferences where this
       material has been or will be published/submitted.

   Please include the plain text version of this information in your
   email as well as any file, pdf, sxw, ppt, or html attachments. The
   reviewers look at text information first so please try to include
   as much relevant information there first.

   Please forward the above information to secwest07@...ecwest.com
   to be considered for placement on the speaker roster, have your
   lightning talk scheduled, or submit your product for inclusion in the
   focus groups.

More info and early discount registration can be found at: 
http://eusecwest.com

Dates have been set for CanSecWest for April 16-20 2007 and early
discount registration is now on-line.

thanks,
--dr

-- 
World Security Pros. Cutting Edge Training, Tools, and Techniques
Tokyo, Japan    November 27-30 2006    http://pacsec.jp
pgpkey http://dragos.com/ kyxpgp
