
Date: Thu, 7 Dec 2006 11:29:38 +0800
From: "pdp (architect)" <pdp.gnucitizen@...glemail.com>
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com,
	WebSec <websecurity@...appsec.org>,
	"Web Application Security" <webappsec@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: New MySpace worm could be on its way

http://www.gnucitizen.org/blog/myspace-quicktime-worm-follow-up

MySpace was hit by a worm in a semi-automatic manner. This time the
worm propagated via a QuickTime flaw found a couple of months ago.
This shouldn't be a surprise to anyone. It is quite serious that this
attack vector was picked up by Apple so late.

In this post I am not going to explain how this particular MySpace
hack works but rather to send a reminder to the security community
that another <http://www.gnucitizen.org/blog/backdooring-mp3-files>
QuickTime XSS vector was found right after the first one. This vector
can be used in a similar way although, IMHO, the impact is greater. I
guess Apple should fix both issues NOW: we don't want MySpace worms
spreading around again, although this is very utopic to say.

Here is a brief reminder of what the XSS issue was all about.

    The problems is caused by a quite useful feature called QuickTime
Media Link (.qtl). The whole point of these QuickTime Media Link files
is to provide means of playing media files in a more accessible way.
In this respect the developer can create a .qtl file which holds
information about the media content that needs to be played plus
recommended dimensions, accessibility features, control features
etc...

    .qtl files can contain malicious JavaScript code that can takeover
some important network device when executed for example. That's not
the end of the story though. Because of its flexibility QuickTime
doesn't mind if Media Link (.qtl) files end with .mp3, .mp4, .m4a or
even .mov extension...

    This is a quite big problem especially in default configurations
of iTunes. The iTunes installation wizard installs the QuickTime
player and QuickTime browser plugins and associates various media
files with its components. If you open an mp3 file from the desktop it
will be played in iTunes player by default, however if you open it
from some website it will be played in the QuickTime player browser
plugin. In this respect, users who are previewing mp3 and other media
files from the Internet are vulnerable.

GNUCITIZEN >> Backdooring MP3 Files

To sum up, and put into context, attackers can use QuickTime Media
Links to imitate popular media files and as such trick the user into
opening malicious content that could lead to their (MySpace) account
or their browser being compromised. Lets look at the following
hypothetical situation:

"Evil Hacker decides to overtake MySpace in order to DoS google.com.
He finds that MySpace allows users to supply links in their posts and
comments. He spends some time to research the 1000 most popular
MySpace members where he will post links to media files titled
orgy.mov or  myconfession.mp3 or even prankster.avi. Once an unaware
user clicks on the link, a phishing page is presented asking the
current user to enter their MySpace details to see the private
content. If the user is tricked, their credentials will be on their
way to the specifically designed for that operation collection point
where another automatic process overtakes their user account
installing the same malicious file or simply hijack other media files
by wrapping them up in QuickTime Media Links the same way it is
described in the article mentioned above. The process repeats when
another users falls into the trap. When enough number of accounts are
compromised Evil Hacker will launch his/her DDoS against Google's
AdSense server farm."

Before seeing more worms of this kind I suggest that we gather our
intellectual power to find a fix or at least a workaround. I welcome
you to join me at GNUCITIZEN's MySpace Worms Topic
<http://www.gnucitizen.org/topics/myspace-worms> for further
discussion. I can assure you that GNUCITIZEN neither me has anything
to do with MySpace or any other related organization. The purpose of
this symposium is learn more about these types of worms and help other
online applications and communities protect themselves. This is much
better than just sitting in our comfy chairs and laughing at people's
mistakes.

Many thanks.

-- 
pdp (architect) | petko d. petkov
http://www.gnucitizen.org
