
Date: Wed, 6 May 2009 15:26:12 -0700
From: Dragos Ruiu <dr@....net>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: EUSecWest 2009 (May27/28) London Agenda and PacSec 2009 (Nov 4/5) Tokyo CFP deadline: June 1 2009

EUSecWest 2009 Speakers

Efficient UAK Recovery attacks against DECT 
	- Ralf-Philipp Weinmann,  University of Luxembourg
A year in the life of an Adobe Flash security researcher 
	- Peleus  Uhley, Adobe
Pwning your grandmother's iPhone 
	- Charley Miller, Independent Security Evaluators
Post exploitation techniques on OSX and Iphone and other TBA matters.
  	- Vincent Iozzo,Zynamics
STOP!! Objective-C Run-TIME.
	- nemo
Exploiting Delphi/Pascal 
	- Ilja Van Sprundel, IOActive
PCI bus based operating system attack and protections 
	- Christophe  Devine & Guillaume Vissian, Thales
Thoughts about Trusted Computing 
	- Joanna Rutkowska, Invisible Things Lab
Nice NIC you got there... does it come with an SSH daemon? 
	- Arrigo Trulzi
Evolving Microsoft Exploit Mitigations 
	- Tim Burrell & Peter Beck,  Microsoft
Malware Case Study: the ZeuS evolution 
	- Vicente Diaz, S21Sec
Writing better XSS payloads 
	- Alex Kouzemtchenko, SIFT
Exploiting Firefox Extensions 
	-Roberto Suggi Liverani & Nick Freeman,  Security-Assessment.com
Stored Value Gift Cards, Magstripes Revisited 
	- Adrian Pastor,  Gnucitizen, Corsaire
Advanced SQL Injection to operating system control 
	- Bernardo Damele Assumpcao Guimaraes, Portcullis
Cloning Mifare Classic 
	- Nicolas Courtois, University of London
Rootkits on Windows Mobile/Embedded 
	- Petr Matousek, Coseinc


PacSec 2009  CALL FOR PAPERS

World Security Pros To Converge on Japan

TOKYO, Japan -- To address the increasing importance of information  
security in Japan, the best known figures in the international  
security industry will get together with leading Japanese researchers  
to share best practices and technology. The most significant new  
discoveries about computer network hack attacks will be presented at  
the seventh annual PacSec conference to be discussed.

The PacSec meeting provides an opportunity for foreign specialists to  
be exposed to Japanese innovation and markets and collaborate on  
practical solutions to computer security issues. In an informal  
setting with a mixture of material bilingually translated in both  
English and Japanese the eminent technologists can socialize and  
attend training sessions.

Announcing the opportunity to submit papers for the PacSec 2009  
network security training conference. The conference will be held  
November 4/5th in Tokyo. The conference focuses on emerging  
information security tutorials - it is a bridge between the  
international and Japanese information security technology communities..

Please make your paper proposal submissions before June 1st, 2009.  
Slides for the papers must be submitted for translation by October 1,  
2009 (Which, oh so rarely, happens we are going to start asking for  
them earlier :-P --dr).

A some invited papers have been confirmed, but a limited number of  
speaking slots are still available. The conference is responsible for  
travel and accomodations for the speakers. If you have a proposal for  
a tutorial session then please email a synopsis of the material and  
your biography, papers and, speaking background to  . Tutorials are  
one hour in length, but with simultaneous translation should be  
approximately 45 minutes in English, or Japanese. Only slides will be  
needed for the October paper deadline, full text does not have to be  
submitted.

The PacSec conference consists of tutorials on technical details about  
current issues, innovative techniques and best practices in the  
information security realm. The audiences are a multi-national mix of  
professionals involved on a daily basis with security work: security  
product vendors, programmers, security officers, and network  
administrators. We give preference to technical details and education  
for a technical audience.

The conference itself is a single track series of presentations in a  
lecture theater environment. The presentations offer speakers the  
opportunity to showcase on-going research and collaborate with peers  
while educating and highlighting advancements in security products and  
techniques. The focus is on innovation, tutorials, and education  
instead of product pitches. Some commercial content is tolerated, but  
it needs to be backed up by a technical presenter - either giving a  
valuable tutorial and best practices instruction or detailing  
significant new technology in the products.

Paper proposals should consist of the following information:

1) Presenter, and geographical location (country of origin/passport)  
and contact info (e-mail, postal address, phone, fax).
2) Employer and/or affiliations.
3) Brief biography, list of publications and papers.
4) Any significant presentation and educational experience/background.
5) Topic synopsis, Proposed paper title, and a one paragraph  
description.
6) Reason why this material is innovative or significant or an  
important tutorial.
7. Optionally, any samples of prepared material or outlines ready.
8. Will you have full text available or only slides?
9. Language of preference for submission.
10. Please list any other publications or conferences where this  
material has been or will be published/submitted.

Please include the plain text version of this information in your  
email as well as any file, pdf, sxw, ppt, or html attachments.

Please forward the above information to  to be considered for  
placement on the speaker roster.

cheers,
--dr

-- 
World Security Pros. Cutting Edge Training, Tools, and Techniques
London, U.K. May 27/28 2009  http://eusecwest.com
Tokyo, Japan November 4/5 2009  http://pacsec.jp
Vancouver, Canada March 22-26 2010  http://cansecwest.com
pgpkey http://dragos.com/ kyxpgp
