
Date: Wed, 13 Dec 2006 15:57:12 -0800
From: Dragos Ruiu <dr@....net>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: CanSecWest 2007 (April 18-20) Call For Papers (Deadline January 7th)

CanSecWest 2007 CALL FOR PAPERS

VANCOUVER, Canada -- The eighth annual CanSecWest applied technical security 
conference - where the eminent figures in the international security industry 
will get together share best practices and technology - will be held in 
downtown Vancouver at the the Mariott Renaissance Harbourside on April 18-20, 
2007. The most significant new discoveries about computer network hack 
attacks and defenses, commercial security solutions, and pragmatic real world 
security experience will be presented in a series of informative tutorials. 

The CanSecWest 2007 meeting provides international researchers a relaxed, 
comfortable environment to learn from informative tutorials on key 
developments in security technology, and collaborate and socialize with their 
peers in one of the world's most scenic cities - a short drive away from one 
of North America's top skiing areas. 

The CanSecWest 2007 conference will also feature the availability of the 
Security Masters Dojo expert network security sensei instructors, and their 
advanced, and intermediate, hands-on training courses - featuring small class 
sizes and practical application excercises to maximize information transfer. 

We would like to announce the opportunity to submit papers, and/or lightning 
talk proposals, for selection by the CanSecWest technical review committee. 
Please make your paper proposal submissions before January 7th, 2007. Slides 
for the papers must be submitted by March 15th, 2007. 

Some invited papers have been confirmed, but a limited number of speaking 
slots are still available. The conference is responsible for travel and 
accomodations for the speakers. If you have a proposal for a tutorial session 
then please email a synopsis of the material and your biography, papers and, 
speaking background to secwes07@...secwest.com. Only slides will be needed 
for the March paper deadline, full text does not have to be submitted - but 
will be accepted if available. 

The CanSecWest 2007 conference consists of tutorials on technical details 
about current issues, innovative techniques and best practices in the 
information security realm. The audiences are a multi-national mix of 
professionals involved on a daily basis with security work: security product 
vendors, programmers, security officers, and network administrators. We give 
preference to technical details and new education for a technical audience. 

The conference itself is a single track series of presentations in a lecture 
theater environment. The presentations offer speakers the opportunity to 
showcase on-going research and collaborate with peers while educating and 
highlighting advancements in security products and techniques. The focus is 
on innovation, tutorials, and education instead of product pitches. Some 
commercial content is tolerated, but it needs to be backed up by a technical 
presenter - either giving a valuable tutorial and best practices instruction 
or detailing significant new technology in the products. 

Paper proposals should consist of the following information: 

1) Presenter, and geographical location (country of origin/passport) and 
contact info (e-mail, postal address, phone, fax). 
2) Employer and/or affiliations. 
3) Brief biography, list of publications and papers. 
4) Any significant presentation and educational experience/background. 
5) Topic synopsis, Proposed paper title, and a one paragraph description. 
6) Reason why this material is innovative or significant or an important 
tutorial. 
7) Optionally, any samples of prepared material or outlines ready. 
8) Will you have full text available or only slides? 
9) Please list any other publications or conferences where this material has 
been or will be published/submitted. 

Please include the plain text version of this information in your email as 
well as any file, pdf, sxw, ppt, or html attachments. (Some reviewers only
look at .txt info.) Multiple submissions are acceptable.

Please forward the above information to be considered for placement on the 
speaker roster, or have your short lightning talk scheduled. Send all 
conference related correspondence to secwes07@...secwest.com.

thanks,
--dr

-- 
World Security Pros. Cutting Edge Training, Tools, and Techniques
London, U.K.    Feb 28 / Mar 1 - 2007    http://eusecwest.com
pgpkey http://dragos.com/ kyxpgp
