
Date: Thu, 07 Jul 2005 15:27:11 -0700
From: "h1kari@...rcon.org" <h1kari@...rcon.org>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: ToorCon 2005 Call for Papers


TOORCON 2005 CALL FOR PAPERS - issued July 7th 2005

Papers and presentations are being accepted for ToorCon 2005 to be held 
at the Convention Center in San Diego, CA on September 24th-26th. Please 
email your submissions to cfp@...rcon.org, submissions will be accepted 
until August 15th 2005.

ABOUT TOORCON
ToorCon is just around the corner again this year. In its 7th running 
year, it is still San Diego's exclusive hacker convention, bringing 
together Southern California's hacker community year after year to 
attend the high quality presentations and participate in the annual 
festivities. This year we are still aiming to provide the same highly 
technical lectures you've come to know and love, but also set the theme 
as "Smoke & Mirrors" which will highlight the voodoo magic behind 
computer security and have a focus on Anonymity, Spoofing Techniques, 
Phishing, and other kung foo exploitation methods. We will also be 
offering an intensive full-day Deep Knowledge Seminars on Friday the 
16th that we are accepting submissions for.

SUBMISSION OF PAPERS
ToorCon only accepts talks on new technologies and methodologies that 
have been recently developed. We will not accept papers that have 
already been presented prior to 2005, unless they present fundamental 
concepts or conform to any of the outlined topics below.

Special consideration will be given to papers addressing the following 
topics:

* Cryptography & Privacy
* Anonymity Concepts
* Forensics, Tracking & Phishing
* Advanced Attack Methods (Exploits, Reverse Engineering, etc)
* Hardware & Protocol Attacks

All talks should be 60 minutes in length including time for delegate 
participation and questions at the end of the presentation. Inclusion of 
any talk related tools, white papers or source code will help during the 
selection process. While we try to facilitate speakers' requests for 
equipment, we may not be able to accommodate all requests. In cases 
where we cannot guarantee special equipment the speaker is expected to 
supply hardware and/or software. Each speaker is also expected to bring 
their own laptop to display their presentation.

All talks must be vendor neutral, while speakers are welcome to present 
on behalf of a company - sales pitches will be thrown out.

REMUNERATION
For each chosen presentation ToorCon will give the speaker and 1 guest 
free admission to the conference.

SPEAKER REQUIREMENTS
Please include the following information with your submission:

1. What title you are submitting your paper under.
2. A valid e-mail address AND telephone number where you can be reached.
3. Number of people that will be presenting.
4. A brief biography on why you are qualified to speak on your topic. 
This will be used on www.toorcon.org as well as in any press material 
for the conference.
5. If you are speaking under a company name, please specify for which 
company you work.
6. Would you like to be considered for speaking at the Deep Knoweldge 
Seminars?

Note that by presenting at ToorCon 2005 you grant ToorCon permission to 
reproduce, distribute and/or advertise your talk as seen fit.

FURTHER INFORMATION
Please visit http://www.toorcon.org for further conference information.

LOCATION INFORMATION
This year's event will be held at the San Diego Convention Center. The 
reception and conference will take place on September 16th-18th in 
meeting rooms 30A-E and the East Terrace at the San Diego Convention 
Center's upper level.

September 16th-18th, 2005
San Diego Convention Center
111 W. Harbor Drive
San Diego, CA 92101
http://www.sdccc.org

IMPORTANT DATES
July 7th, 2005: Official Call For Papers issued.
August 15th, 2005: Call for Papers closes.
August 29th, 2005: Final submission of complete material for CDs and 
printing
September 16-18th, 2005: ToorCon 2005


