
Date: Sat, 12 Mar 2005 18:44:09 +0100
From: louis <trumpbour@...il.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: summercon looking for speakers


CALL FOR PAPERS: Speak at SummerCon 2005

http://www.summercon.org/rfp

SUMMERCON XVII Annual Conference on Computer Security
June 3-5, 2005 Austin, TX (USA)

Program Committee Chair: Mark Trumpbour
Organized by: The folks at SummerCon (http://www.summercon.org)
Theme for 2005: Tools of the Trade

There are many opinions about what a hacker is and what a hacker
isn't. But all hackers have a universal fascination with tools, their
design, their use and abuse, and especially the techniques that they
enable.

Modern tool designers are software engineers who are prompted by the
absence of a needed application, or limitations of an existing one.
The amount of time and effort saved by a well-designed tool is strong
motivation for the relatively small amount of effort invested. Those
who provide these fruits of labor to the rest of the world are often
highly regarded by hackers and resented by those who have lost a
degree of control as a result.

To the hacker almost everything is a tool. Some tools are very common
and easy to find, like a terminal, a web-browser, or a screwdriver.
Other tools can be downloaded, bought from a store, or made
MacGyver-style from everyday items. Many applications contain unknown
functions, and it is often the hacker thought process that discovers
what they are and how they work. Learning to use a tool requires
practice, and it is only through use of a tool that a hacker gains
proficiency.

But caution always follows the hacker because of the tools they choose
to find, use, and keep in their toolbox. Tools are often
misinterpreted by the authorities, the media and general public as
dangerous and malicious. Simple knowledge about a tool is often viewed
as a threat in a security conscious environment. The modern day cowboy
no longer wears his tools on a belt.

In the history of the world, tools have lead to the growth of many
innovations. A succession of newer better tools that replaced older
obsolete tools can be seen as the driving force of civilization. The
simple belief that there must be a way to get the job done, is
sometimes the only tool a hacker needs.
TYPES OF SUBMISSIONS ACCEPTED

   1. Research Papers
   2. Technology Reviews
   3. Position Papers
   4. Investigative Reports
   5. Proposals for a Discussion Panel
   6. Demonstrations
   7. Workshops
   8. New Topics and Invited Sessions Proposals
   9. Rap Song 

EXAMPLES OF PAST SESSIONS

Speakers always ask us for examples of past sessions. The best place
to look is in the Archives section of the SummerCon website:

http://www.summercon.org/content.agent?page_name=archive

Here are a few of our favorites from SummerCon Past:

   1. High Tech Crime Investigation, the FBI Way
   2. Interesting SQL Injection Techniques and Countermeasures
   3. RandomTalk: Whats Wheres Whys and Hows of Random Numbers
   4. War Driving and WiFi: The 201.11b Survey
   5. Hacking Your Digital Identity
   6. Number Generation with a Perspective on Factorisation
   7. The Media Report (Q&A session with a reporter from the media)
   8. The Network IS the Virus
   9. Secure Digital Music Initiative Challenge Results
  10. Practical Auditing of HTTP(s) Servers
  11. Network Mapping & Host Identification
  12. Beer Hacking

EXTENDED ABSTRACTS AND PAPER DRAFTS SUBMISSION

Extended abstracts or paper drafts should be sent taking into account
the following format:

   1. Major theme of the paper should be related to at least one of
the major themes given above.
   2. Paper title.
   3. Extended abstract of 250 to 1000 words and/or paper drafts of
500 to 5000 words, in English.
   4. Author(s) and/or co-author(s) with names (or pseudonyms),
addresses, telephone and fax numbers, and e-mail addresses (or other
reasonable contact information).

Extended abstracts or paper drafts can be sent to this email address
as an attachment: rfp2005@...mercon.org
please refrain from sending content containing naked memebers of limp
bizkit. Paris Hitlon is acceptable.


They can also be snail mailed to:
SummerCon 2005
4551 Forbes Ave
Pittsburgh PA 15213


DEADLINES
April 15th, 2005:
    Submission of extended abstracts (500-1500) words or paper drafts
(2000-5000) words.
April 29th, 2005
    Acceptance notifications.
May 13th, 2005
    Submission of camera-ready papers: hard copies and electronic versions. 

thanks,

-louis


