
Date: Tue, 12 Aug 2008 14:58:38 +0200
From: energy@...dshack.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: Secret Plan To Kill Internet By 2012 Leaked?

Some question if report that pay-per-view system to be introduced is a
hoax, but wider march to regulate the web is documented

Paul Joseph Watson / Prison Planet | June 11, 2008

ISP’s have resolved to restrict the Internet to a TV-like subscription
model where users will be forced to pay to visit selected corporate
websites by 2012, while others will be blocked, according to a leaked
report. Despite some people dismissing the story as a hoax, the wider
plan to kill the traditional Internet and replace it with a regulated
and controlled Internet 2 is manifestly provable.

"Bell Canada and TELUS (formerly owned by Verizon) employees officially
confirm that by 2012 ISP’s all over the globe will reduce Internet
access to a TV-like subscription model, only offering access to a small
standard amount of commercial sites and require extra fees for every
other site you visit. These ‘other’ sites would then lose all their
exposure and eventually shut down, resulting in what could be seen as
the end of the Internet," warns a report that has spread like wildfire
across the web over the last few days.

The article, which is accompanied by a You Tube clip, states that Time
Magazine writer "Dylan Pattyn" has confirmed the information and is
about to release a story - and that the move to effectively shut down
the web could come as soon as 2010.

Watch the clip.


 

People have raised questions about the report’s accuracy because the
claims are not backed by another source, only the "promise" that a Time
Magazine report is set to confirm the rumor. Until such a report emerges
many have reserved judgment or outright dismissed the story as a hoax.

What is documented, as the story underscores, is the fact that TELUS’
wireless web package allows only restricted pay-per-view access to a
selection of corporate and news websites. This is the model that the
post-2012 Internet would be based on.

People have noted that the authors of the video seem to be more
concerned about getting people to subscribe to their You Tube account
than fighting for net neutrality by prominently featuring an attractive
woman who isn’t shy about showing her cleavage. The vast majority of the
other You Tube videos hosted on the same account consist of bizarre
avante-garde satire skits on behalf of the same people featured in the
Internet freedom clip. This has prompted many to suspect that the
Internet story is merely a stunt to draw attention to the group.

Whether the report is accurate or merely a crude hoax, there is a very
real agenda to restrict, regulate and suffocate the free use of the
Internet and we have been documenting its progression for years.

The first steps in a move to charge for every e mail sent have already
been taken. Under the pretext of eliminating spam, Bill Gates and other
industry chieftains have proposed Internet users buy credit stamps which
denote how many e mails they will be able to send. This of course is the
death knell for political newsletters and mailing lists.
    
    
    

 

The New York Times reported that "America Online and Yahoo, two of the
world’s largest providers of e-mail accounts, are about to start using a
system that gives preferential treatment to messages from companies that
pay from 1/4 of a cent to a penny each to have them delivered. The
senders must promise to contact only people who have agreed to receive
their messages, or risk being blocked entirely."

The first wave will simply attempt to price people out of using the
conventional Internet and force people over to Internet 2, a state
regulated hub where permission will need to be obtained directly from an
FCC or government bureau to set up a website.

The original Internet will then be turned into a mass surveillance
database and marketing tool. The Nation magazine reported in 2006 that,
"Verizon, Comcast, Bell South and other communications giants are
developing strategies that would track and store information on our
every move in cyberspace in a vast data-collection and marketing system,
the scope of which could rival the National Security Agency. According
to white papers now being circulated in the cable, telephone and
telecommunications industries, those with the deepest
pockets–corporations, special-interest groups and major
advertisers–would get preferred treatment. Content from these providers
would have first priority on our computer and television screens, while
information seen as undesirable, such as peer-to-peer communications,
could be relegated to a slow lane or simply shut out."

Over the past few years, a chorus of propaganda intended to demonize the
Internet and further lead it down a path of strict control has spewed
forth from numerous establishment organs:

    * Time magazine reported last year that researchers funded by the
federal government want to shut down the internet and start over, citing
the fact that at the moment there are loopholes in the system whereby
users cannot be tracked and traced all the time.

      The projects echo moves we have previously reported on to clamp
down on internet neutrality and even to designate a new form of the
internet known as Internet
      2.

    * In a display of bi-partisanship, there have recently been calls
for all
      out mandatory ISP snooping on all US citizens by both Democrats
and Republicans alike.
    *
      The White House’s own recently de-classified
      strategy for "winning the war on terror" targets Internet
conspiracy theories as a recruiting ground for terrorists and threatens
to "diminish" their influence.
    *
      The Pentagon recently announced its effort to infiltrate
      the Internet and propagandize for the war on terror.
    *
      In a speech last October, Homeland Security director Michael
Chertoff identified the web as a "terror training camp," through which
"disaffected people living in the United States" are developing "radical
ideologies and potentially violent skills."
      His solution is "intelligence fusion centers," staffed by Homeland
Security personnel which will go into operation next year.
    *
      The U.S. Government wants to force bloggers and online grassroots
activists to register and regularly report their activities to Congress.
Criminal charges including a possible jail term of up to one year could
be the punishment for non-compliance.
    *
      A landmark legal case on behalf of the Recording Industry
Association of America and other global trade organizations seeks to
criminalize all Internet file sharing of any kind as copyright
infringement, effectively shutting down the world wide web - and their
argument is supported by the U.S. government.
    *
      A landmark legal ruling in Sydney goes further than ever before in
setting the trap door for the destruction of the Internet as we know it
and the end of alternative news websites and blogs by creating the
precedent that simply linking to other websites is breach of copyright
and piracy.
    *
      The European Union, led by former Stalinist and potential future
British Prime Minister John Reid, has also vowed to shut down
"terrorists" who use the Internet to spread propaganda.
    *
      The EU data retention bill, passed last year after much
controversy and with implementation tabled for late 2007, obliges
telephone operators and internet service providers to store information
on who called who and who emailed who for at least six months. Under
this law, investigators in any EU country, and most bizarrely even in
the US, can access EU citizens’ data on phone calls, SMS messages,
emails and instant messaging services.
    *
      The EU also recently proposed legislation that would prevent users
from uploading any form of video without a license.
    * The US government is also funding research into social networking
sites and how to gather and store personal data published on them,
according to the New Scientist magazine. "At the same time, US lawmakers
are attempting to force the social networking sites themselves to
control the amount and kind of information that people, particularly
children, can put on the sites."

The development of a new form of internet with new regulations is also
designed to create an online caste system whereby the old internet hubs
would be allowed to break down and die, forcing people to use the new
taxable, censored and regulated world wide web.

Make no mistake, the internet, one of the greatest outposts of free
speech ever created is under constant attack by powerful people who
cannot operate within a society where information flows freely and
unhindered. Both American and European moves mimic stories we hear every
week out of state controlled Communist China, where the internet is
strictly regulated and virtually exists as its own entity away from the
rest of the web.

The Internet is freedom’s best friend and the bane of control freaks.
Its eradication is one of the short term goals of those that seek to
centralize power and subjugate their populations under tyranny by
eliminating the right to protest and educate others by the forum of
the free world wide web.

source: http://www.infowars.com/?p=2640

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/