
Date: Tue, 17 Jul 2007 20:34:30 -0400
From: iDefense Labs <labs-no-reply@...fense.com>
To: vulnwatch@...nwatch.org, full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk,
	bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: iDefense Security Advisory 07.17.07: Computer Associates Alert Notification
 Server Multiple Buffer Overflow Vulnerabilities

Computer Associates Alert Notification Server Multiple Buffer Overflow
Vulnerabilities

iDefense Security Advisory 07.17.07
http://labs.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/
Jul 17, 2007

I. BACKGROUND

Computer Associates Alert Notification Server is used by several CA
products, including eTrust Integrated Threat Management, to provide
notifications to console users.

II. DESCRIPTION

Remote exploitation of multiple buffer overflow vulnerabilities in
Computer Associates International Inc.'s (CA) Threat Manager allows
attackers to execute arbitrary code with SYSTEM privileges.

When Computer Associates Threat Manager is installed, it also installs
the Alert Notification Server (alert.exe) which registers an RPC
interface with the GUID 3d742890-397c-11cf-9bf1-00805f88cb72. This
interface contains stack-based buffer overflow vulnerabilities within
the handling code for several RPC operation codes.

III. ANALYSIS

Exploitation allows an attacker to execute code with SYSTEM privileges
on the targeted host.

The vulnerable code can be reached remotely using the SMB protocol. As
such, valid credentials are required to exploit this vulnerability on
Windows XP and newer systems. Windows 2000 based installations do not
require credentials.

IV. DETECTION

iDefense confirmed that the Alert Notification Server included with
Computer Associates International Inc.'s eTrust Integrated Threat
Management r8 for Windows is vulnerable.

V. WORKAROUND

iDefense is currently unaware of any workarounds for this issue.

VI. VENDOR RESPONSE

" CA has provided an update to address the vulnerabilities. The updated
Alert service must be manually installed. "

For more information consult Computer Associates' advisory at the
following URL.

http://supportconnectw.ca.com/public/antivirus/infodocs/caantivirus-secnotice.asp

VII. CVE INFORMATION

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project has assigned the
name CVE-2007-3825 to this issue. This is a candidate for inclusion in
the CVE list (http://cve.mitre.org/), which standardizes names for
security problems.

VIII. DISCLOSURE TIMELINE

02/27/2007  Initial vendor notification
02/27/2007  Initial vendor response
07/17/2007  Public disclosure

IX. CREDIT

The discoverer of this vulnerability wishes to remain anonymous.

Get paid for vulnerability research
http://labs.idefense.com/methodology/vulnerability/vcp.php

Free tools, research and upcoming events
http://labs.idefense.com/

X. LEGAL NOTICES

Copyright © 2007 iDefense, Inc.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert
electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express
written consent of iDefense. If you wish to reprint the whole or any
part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically,
please e-mail customerservice@...fense.com for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate
at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use
of the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS condition.
 There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct,
indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or
reliance on, this information.
