
Date: Wed, 16 Feb 2005 03:43:05 -0700
From: "Boren, Rich (SSRT)" <rich.boren@...com>
To: <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: [Security Bulletin] SSRT5893 rev.0 - HP Web-enabled Management Software Remote Buffer Overflow


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

HP SECURITY BULLETIN

HPSBMA01116     REVISION: 0

SSRT5893 rev.0 - HP Web-enabled Management Software
                 Remote Buffer Overflow

NOTICE:
There are no restrictions for distribution of this Security
Bulletin provided that it remains complete and intact.

The information in this Security Bulletin should be acted upon
as soon as possible.

INITIAL RELEASE:
14 February 2005

POTENTIAL SECURITY IMPACT:
       Remote unauthorized user may create Denial of
       Service (DoS), and execute privileged code

SOURCE:
Hewlett-Packard Company
HP Software Security Response Team

VULNERABILITY SUMMARY:
        A potential remotely exploitable buffer overflow
        vulnerability has been identified in the HP HTTP Server
        component of the HP Web-enabled Management Software. The
        potential vulnerability could result in a denial of
        service condition or in the execution of privileged code.

REFERENCES:
None

SUPPORTED SOFTWARE VERSIONS*:  ONLY impacted versions are listed.
    HP HTTP Server (Version 5.0 through Version 5.95) HP HTTP
    Server is a component of HP Web Based Management Products
    for Microsoft Windows NT 4.0, Windows 2000, Windows 2003,
     and Linux.

BACKGROUND:
    To ensure that HP Web-enabled Management Software has
    the most current enhancements and patches, upgrade to the
    latest versions as they become available. For additional
    information, refer to the ProLiant server management web
    site at the following URL:www.hp.com/servers/manage



RESOLUTION:
    HP HTTP Server (Version 5.0 through Version 5.95) HP HTTP
    Server is a component of HP Web Based Management Products
    for Microsoft Windows NT 4.0, Windows 2000, Windows 2003,
    and Linux.

    HP recommends that customers upgrade to HP HTTP Server
    Version 5.96 (or later) OR to the System Management
    Homepage Version 2.0 or later.

    Management Software Security Patch for Windows Version 5.96
    (or later) and downloadable as SoftPaq SP29008. The latest
    Security Patch SoftPaq is available for download from the
    following URL:
    http://h18023.www1.hp.com/support/files/Server/us/
    download/22192.html

    Note: The System Management Homepage version 2.0 for Windows
    and Linux available in SmartStart version 7.20 (when
    available) and later can be used for resolution.

BULLETIN REVISION HISTORY:
 Revision 0  - 14 February  2005
 - Initial release



SUPPORT: For further information, contact normal HP Services
support channel.

REPORT: To report a potential security vulnerability with any HP
supported product, send Email to: security-alert@...com. It is
strongly recommended that security related information being
communicated to HP be encrypted using PGP, especially exploit
information. To obtain the security-alert PGP key please send an
e-mail message to security-alert@...com with the Subject of
'get key' (no quotes).

SUBSCRIBE: To initiate a subscription to receive future HP
Security Bulletins via Email:

http://h30046.www3.hp.com/driverAlertProfile.php?regioncode=NA&
langcode=USENG&jumpid=in_SC-GEN__driverITRC&topiccode=ITRC

On the web page: ITRC security bulletins and patch sign-up
Under Step1: your IRTC security bulletins and patches
     - check ALL categories for which alerts are required and
       continue.
Under Step2: your IRTC operating systems
     - verify your operating system selections are checked and
       save.

To update an existing subscription:
http://h30046.www3.hp.com/subSignIn.php

Log in on the web page
  Subscriber's choice for Business: sign-in.
On the Web page:
 Subscriber's Choice: your profile summary
   - use Edit Profile to update appropriate sections.

To review previously published Security Bulletins visit:
http://itrc.hp.com/service/cki/secBullArchive.do

* The Software Product Category that this Security Bulletin
  relates to is represented by the 5th and 6th characters of the
  Bulletin number:
    GN = HP General SW,
    MA = HP Management Agents,
    MI = Misc. 3rd party SW,
    MP = HP MPE/iX,
    NS = HP NonStop Servers,
    OV = HP OpenVMS,
    PI = HP Printing & Imaging,
    ST = HP Storage SW,
    TL = HP Trusted Linux,
    TU = HP Tru64 UNIX,
    UX = HP-UX,
    VV = HP Virtual Vault

System management and security procedures must be reviewed
frequently to maintain system integrity. HP is continually
reviewing and enhancing the security features of software products
to provide customers with current secure solutions.

"HP is broadly distributing this Security Bulletin in order to
bring to the attention of users of the affected HP products the
important security information contained in this Bulletin. HP
recommends that all users determine the applicability of this
information to their individual situations and take appropriate
action. HP does not warrant that this information is necessarily
accurate or complete for all user situations and, consequently, HP
will not be responsible for any damages resulting from user's use
or disregard of the information provided in this Bulletin. To the
extent permitted by law, HP disclaims all warranties, either
express or implied, including the warranties of merchantability
and fitness for a particular purpose, title and non-infringement."


(c)Copyright 2005 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
Hewlett-Packard Company shall not be liable for technical or
editorial errors or omissions contained herein. The information
provided is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind. To the
extent permitted by law, neither HP nor its affiliates,
subcontractors or suppliers will be liable for incidental, special
or consequential damages including downtime cost; lost profits;
damages relating to the procurement of substitute products or
services; or damages for loss of data, or software restoration.
The information in this document is subject to change without
notice. Hewlett-Packard Company and the names of Hewlett-Packard
products referenced herein are trademarks of Hewlett-Packard
Company in the United States and other countries. Other product
and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their
respective owners.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGP 8.1

iQA/AwUBQhHrfuAfOvwtKn1ZEQLHxACfSWyCUxZNFR9INh/lap1eszBt+nEAoKQs
CmOGNes4Iw5V8Bf0xFIMD9cp
=UrMr
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----


