
Date: Wed, 9 Dec 2009 11:39:07 -0600
From: ZDI Disclosures <zdi-disclosures@...pingpoint.com>
To: "'full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk'" <full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk>,
	"'bugtraq@...urityfocus.com'" <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: ZDI-09-094: Hewlett-Packard OpenView NNM Multiple Command Injection
 Vulnerabilities

ZDI-09-094: Hewlett-Packard OpenView NNM Multiple Command Injection Vulnerabilities
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-09-094
December 9, 2009

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2009-3845

-- Affected Vendors:
Hewlett-Packard

-- Affected Products:
Hewlett-Packard OpenView Network Node Manager

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 8253. 
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS, visit:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Hewlett-Packard's Network Node Manager.
Authentication is not required to exploit this vulnerability.

The specific flaws exist within Perl CGI executables distributed with
Network Node Manager (NNM). Several of these applications fail to
sanitize the hostname HTTP variable when requests are made to the NNM
HTTP server which listens by default on TCP port 3443. By supplying a
pipe operator a malicious attacker can insert arbitrary commands that
will be executed on the remote server. 

-- Vendor Response:
Hewlett-Packard has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:

http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/Document.jsp?objectID=c01950877

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2009-03-13 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2009-12-09 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by:
    * Anonymous

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is
used. TippingPoint does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any
exploit code. Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor,
TippingPoint provides its customers with zero day protection through
its intrusion prevention technology. Explicit details regarding the
specifics of the vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until
an official vendor patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the
altruistic aim of helping to secure a broader user base, TippingPoint
provides this vulnerability information confidentially to security
vendors (including competitors) who have a vulnerability protection or
mitigation product.

Our vulnerability disclosure policy is available online at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/disclosure_policy/