
Date: Tue, 16 Jun 2009 15:27:10 +0200
From: Max Moser <max.moser@...il.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Official release of "Keykeriki" open source wireless keyboard sniffer

Hi everyone, i just like to announce officially the release of our
wireless keyboard sniffer Keykeriki.

An addition to the official press release;

Website: http://www.remote-exploit.org/Keykeriki.html
Video with some demonstration available on website as well
Contact: hardhack@...ote-exploit.org

The first lot of pre-fab PCBs will arrive until the end of this week.

Stay tuned... Max Moser

So here is our press release:

“Keykeriki” – Dreamlab Technologies and remote-exploit.org develop the
first open 27Mhz wireless
keyboard sniffer. It sniffs and records the signal of wireless
keyboards and demonstrates their security
risk level. And it can be used to demonstrate hacking-attacks for
educational purpose.
Wireless keyboards are very popular in many offices and private homes.
Even in the front office section of banks,
they are frequently used. But they represent a big security risk – as
dreamlab technologies already pointed out in
a white paper published 2007. Wireless keyboards are risky, because
they transmit a radio signal that is not
enough protected. The newly developed portable universal receiver
sniffs and records the signal of wireless
keyboards and demonstrates their security risk level. The
keykeriki-software and construction plans for -hardware
are freely available online [www.remote-exploit.org].

Hardware
The hardware needs to be portable and small and to be able to adapt to
future needs. Keykeriki is therefore built
around a Texas Instruments TRF7900 chip controlled by an ATMEL ATMEGA
microcontroller. For logging
abilities an SDCard-interface is built into the board layout, as well
as an additional USART channel for future
hardware extensions (“backpacks”). The whole board can be powered
directly via the USB-bus or a stable 5V-
power source. When connected to a computer’s USB-port, one can use
either a decent terminal application or the
keykeriCTL software which is included in the software package of this
project. All the schematics can be
downloaded in eagle- and PDF-format as part of the project’s software
package. Fully equipped boards will be
provided in the near future.

Software
Because of the flexible hardware design, most features can be built in
by software. This first release contains
(among other features) radio frequency switching, signal strength
display, deciphering of encryptions, sniffing and
decoding of keystrokes of Microsoft 27Mhz based keyboards.

Extensions
Hardware extensions are easy to realize because two different
interfaces, a second USART, I²C/TWI and SPI, are
externalized. Therefore so called Backpacks e. g. an LCD display
controller can be connected using the USART
Interface.

The Future
Future extensions include amplification for antennas, support of other
Microsoft keyboards and products of other
producers, the constant amelioration of hard- and software and the
parallel handling of several keyboards.
Furthermore, a keykeriki able to send mouse- and keyboard-signals is intended.
Technical details can be found online: www.remote-exploit.org.

About Dreamlab
Dreamlab Technologies AG is an internationally operating company
specialized in IT-Security. Established in
1997, Dreamlab Technologies performs high-end security test,
consulting and education, and realizes solutions
based on “best-in-class” open standard technologies. Dreamlab
Technologies is an official education partner and
representative of ISECOM (Institute for Security and Open
Methodologies) for France, Germany and Switzerland.
ISECOM is the editor of OSSTMM, today’s most popular security audit methodology.
