
Date: Tue, 8 May 2007 11:45:44 -0700
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-027: Microsoft Internet Explorer Table Column Deletion Memory
 Corruption Vulnerability

ZDI-07-027: Microsoft Internet Explorer Table Column Deletion Memory
            Corruption Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-027.html
May  8, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-0944

-- Affected Vendor:
Microsoft

-- Affected Products:
Internet Explorer 5
Internet Explorer 6

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since May  8, 2007 by Digital Vaccine protection
filter ID 5236. For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Microsoft Internet Explorer. User
interaction is required to exploit this vulnerability in that the
target must visit a malicious page.

The specific flaw exists in the CTableCol::OnPropertyChange() method.
When a named table row in HTML contains a named table column, then
calls the deleteCell() JavaScript method, any property of the table
column, existing or not, accessed after the deletion takes place will
trigger an exploitable memory corruption.

-- Vendor Response:
Microsoft has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:

    http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/bulletin/ms07-027.mspx

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2006.10.03 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.05.08 - Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint customers
2007.05.08 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by an anonymous researcher.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.
