
Date: Thu, 8 Jan 2009 10:46:39 -0800
From: "LayerOne Call For Papers" <layeronecfp@...il.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: LayerOne 2009 Call for Papers

LayerOne 2009 Security Conference
Call for Papers

May 23 & 24, 2009
Anaheim, California (Anaheim Marriott)
http://layerone.info/

The sixth annual LayerOne security conference is now accepting
submissions for topic and speaker selection. As always, we are
interested seeing a broad range of pertinent topics, and encourage all
submissions. Some of our past presentations have included:

- Virtualization
- Forensics / Anti-Forensics Techniques
- Hardware Hacking (GSM, Proximity Cards, Access Control Systems)
- Law / Legal Issues
- Malware
- VoIP
- Cryptographic Cracking Using FPGA Technology

We would love to see the same breadth and depth of submissions as we
have in previous years, so if you have an idea you're on the fence
about - please send it in! For a complete list of past presentations,
click here.

Please be sure to include the following information in your submission:

- Presentation name
- A one-sentence synopsis of your topic
- A longer one to three paragraph synopsis or short outline of what
you plan on covering
- Names, email addresses and URLs of the presenter(s)
- A short (single-paragraph) biography of the presenter(s)

Once everything is ready to go, please email your submission to cfp
[at] layerone [dot] info no later than April 1, 2009. You will receive
notice no later than April 15, 2009 to let you know if your talk has
been accepted.

As we have a single presentation track, please bear in mind that
speaking slots are limited to one hour. While presenters typically
divide the hour into separate presentation and Q&A sessions, you may
structure your time however you see fit. If you think your
presentation will run longer, or have any special requirements, please
include this information in your submission and we will do our best to
accommodate you.

Note: If the presentation is based upon code or a particular
technique, the presenter must be one of the developers of the code or
technique and be prepared to perform a demonstration.

We look forward to reviewing your submissions, and anticipate another
great line-up for this year's conference. Once again, if you have any
questions about your submission, please email cfp [at] layerone [dot]
info. Thank you for your interest, and we look forward to seeing you
there!

Sincerely,
-The LayerOne Team
