
Date: Wed, 18 Apr 2007 13:32:03 -0700
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-020: BMC Performance Manager SNMP Command Execution Vulnerability

ZDI-07-020: BMC Performance Manager SNMP Command Execution Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-020.html
April 18, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-1972

-- Affected Vendor:
BMC

-- Affected Products:
Performance Manager

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since April 13, 2007 by Digital Vaccine protection
filter ID 5286. For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
These vulnerabilities allows attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of BMC Performance Manager. User interaction
is not required to exploit this vulnerability.

The specific flaw exists in the PatrolAgent.exe listening on TCP port
3181. The service allows remote attackers to modify configuration files
without authentication. This can be exploited by an attacker by
modifying parameters in SNMP communities definitions. By modifying the
masterAgentName and masterAgentStartLine parameters, an attacker can
execute arbitrary code.

-- Vendor Response:
BMC has provided the following statement: "[This issue] has been found
not to be a security vulnerability; when properly configured (as
described for our customers in our documentation and in our online
knowledge base) this attack is not possible. 
 
BMC has a formal customer support mechanism in place to provide
solutions to security issues brought to us by those who have legally
licensed our software. In cases where security issues are brought to my
attention by individuals/vendors who do not have legal access to our
products, we will investigate their merit; however the issues will be
addressed at our own discretion and according to our understanding of
their severity. 
 
Finally, please note that in the future, I will only communicate
resolutions and workarounds to licensed customers who are using our
software legally. For a more meaningful dialogue around these issues
and to be notified of any available patches, I urge all licensed
customers to use BMC's support mechanism."

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2007.03.05 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.04.13 - Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint customers
2007.04.18 - Public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by an anonymous researcher.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.

