
Date: Mon, 03 Jun 2013 12:50:42 +0200
From: BalCCon Org <cfp@...ccon.org>
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: Call For Papers - Balkan Computer Congress 2013

Call for Papers for 1st Balkan Computer Congress - BalCCon 06|07
September 2013, Novi Sad, Vojvodina, Serbia, Europe, Earth, Milky Way

The Event: Balkan Computer Congress has been conceptualized as a two day
gathering of the international hacker community in the organization
of LUGoNS – Linux users of Novi Sad. We admire and tend to find a role
model in the large scale conferences such as Chaos Communication
Congress, organized by the Chaos Computer Club (CCC). Smaller hacker
community gatherings had been organized in the Balkans in the past,
yet, this is the first International Congress of this scale.

The Organizers: Organization team has scores of years of experience
visiting, participating in and volunteering at hacker events of all sizes.
This is our first attempt to organize such an event independently, with
the help of friends from all around the world!

The Location: Novi Sad is the centre of Vojvodina, northern province of
Serbia, famous for its multicultural history and active artistic and
technological scene (e.g. music festival Exit and digital-media event
Share). With a prestige night life combined with the warm and welcoming
character, Novi Sad offers inexpensive prices for lodging and dining,
compared to the neighboring EU.

Our Goal: Our goal is to gather all the communities from the region,
continent and the World in an effort to hack, play, learn, pass knowledge
and exchange experience. BalCCon aims to become the central hacker
community in South East Balkan, as well as to provide the opportunity
for all the people in this part of Europe to connect and to cooperate.

Having said that, we would like to invite you to make and send us
proposals for talks, lectures and workshops on all topics of relevance.
We would also like to see installations and projects you have done
recently. The following areas are of particular interest:

- Free Software
- Interesting Hardware
- Security Nightmares
- Deep Web
- Cryptography, Cryptanalysis and Crypto-politics
- Social Networks – unexpected use, abuse and analysis
- Social Engineering
- Robotics – humanoid, football playing, autonomous vehicles, (armed)
drones, ethics, utopia and dystopia
- Hacker Space Program, Space Travel and Satellites – technology, goals
and ethics
- Reverse Engineering, Forensics and Anti-Forensics – technology, law
and politics
- Mobile Device Hacking and Telecommunications Security, Security of Apps
- Clouds – hacking, breaking, unexpected usage
- Future or No Future of IT Security – state of fail, new concepts and
methods, implications for society and infrastructure
- Lockpicking
- DPI (deep packet inspection) – current state of introduction,
breaking, circumvention and political situation
- Net and Device Neutrality – ownership, censorship, circumvention and
the politics of de-facto standards, search engine politics
- Programming Languages — state of the art and research
- Politics and Technology of Surveillance and Oppression – state
trojans, interception, social media monitoring, laws and counter-movements
- Revolutions and Hacktivism
- Transparency and Participation in Politics and Governance
- Copyright and Patents – the war on file-sharing, alternatives to the
current system

Submission Guidelines

For Talks, Lectures and Workshops: Please submit a meaningful and
complete description which will give us an insight on the key points of
your presentation. We prefer quality over quantity, which will be
evaluated based on the proposal you send us. Also, have in mind that other
people might submit a talk on the same topic, so give us a reason to
consider your presentation unique. Feel free to include some facts
about yourself and the things that motivate you. It is not necessary for
your talk to be the first of its kind, it may have been presented at
other conferences, however please make sure that its content is up to
date. Lectures should not exceed 45 minutes, plus up to 15 minutes
for questions and answers. Longer time slots are possible if we feel the
topic demands it (please tell us if necessary). Please indicate the length
of your presentation clearly on your submission.

Language of the Presentation: BalCCon is an international congress,
therefore your submissions should be in English. It is expected that we
will
have participants from all over the World, so it is important to have a
common language.

Travel Expenses: The Balkan Computer Congress is a non-profit oriented
event and speakers are not paid. However, financial help on accommodation
may be possible, within our means, for all accepted submissions. Don’t
be shy and state your requirements in the application when submitting
your proposal.

How to Submit? Please follow the instructions below. If you have any
questions regarding your submission, feel free to contact us at
cfp(at)balccon.org.

By Email:

Email your submission to: cfp at balccon.org.
Email subject should be: CFP BalCCon 2013 - Paper Title
Email Body:
Personal Information:
Speaker Name:
Job Role/Handle:
Company/Organization:
Country:
Email ID:
Contact Number:
Speaker Profile: (max 1000 words)
Presentation Details:
Name/Title of the Presentation:
Paper Abstract: (max 3000 words)
Presentation Time Required (20, 30, 50 Minutes)
Is there any demonstration? Yes or No
Other Needs & Requirements: Do you need any special equipment? If you
have any other requirements, please mention it here and the reason.

All submissions will be reviewed by our Program Committee. Authors will
be notified upon acceptance of their talk.

Dates and Deadlines:

July 1st, 2013 (23:59 UTC): Submission deadline
July 15th, 2013: Final notification of acceptance
September 6th – 7th, 2013: BalCCon Computer Congress

All submissions will be judged equally, disregarding race and gender.
Organizers reserve the right to make changes to the event program or
disregard
any proposal if found inappropriate for this congress.

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/
