
Date: Tue, 11 Dec 2007 16:21:47 -0600
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-076: Microsoft Windows Message Queuing Service Stack Overflow
 Vulnerability

ZDI-07-076: Microsoft Windows Message Queuing Service Stack Overflow 
Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-076.html
December 11, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-3039

-- Affected Vendor:
Microsoft

-- Affected Products:
Windows 2000 SP4
Windows XP SP2

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 5525. 
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Microsoft Windows with the Message Queuing
Service enabled. Authentication is not required to exploit this
vulnerability.

The specific flaw exists in the RPC interface defined on port 2103 with
UUID fdb3a030-065f-11d1-bb9b-00a024ea5525. During the processing of
opnum 0x06 the service copies user-supplied information into a fixed
length stack buffer. Sending at least 300 bytes will trigger a stack
based buffer overflow due to a vulnerable wcscat() call. Exploitation
of this issue can result in arbitrary code execution.

-- Vendor Response:
Microsoft has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:

http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/bulletin/ms07-065.mspx

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2007.04.02 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.12.11 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by Tenable Network Security.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
