
Date: Thu, 21 Jan 2010 14:10:22 -0600
From: ZDI Disclosures <zdi-disclosures@...pingpoint.com>
To: "'full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk'" <full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk>,
	"'bugtraq@...urityfocus.com'" <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: ZDI-10-012: Microsoft Internet Explorer Baseline Tag Rendering
 Remote Code Execution Vulnerability

ZDI-10-012: Microsoft Internet Explorer Baseline Tag Rendering Remote Code Execution Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-10-012
January 21, 2010

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2010-0246

-- Affected Vendors:
Microsoft

-- Affected Products:
Microsoft Internet Explorer 7
Microsoft Internet Explorer 8

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 9429. 
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS, visit:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Microsoft Internet Explorer. User
interaction is required to exploit this vulnerability in that an
attacker must coerce a victim to visit a malicious page.

The specific flaw exists due to the application rendering intertwined
strike and center tags containing an element that manipulates the font
baseline such as 'sub' or 'sup'. When this element pointer is removed
the application will later dereference it even though it has been freed.
Successful exploitation can lead to arbitrary code execution under the
context of the currently logged in user.

-- Vendor Response:
Microsoft states:
http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/Bulletin/MS10-jan.mspx

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2009-07-16 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2010-01-21 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by:
    * Sam Thomas of eshu.co.uk

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is
used. TippingPoint does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any
exploit code. Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor,
TippingPoint provides its customers with zero day protection through
its intrusion prevention technology. Explicit details regarding the
specifics of the vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until
an official vendor patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the
altruistic aim of helping to secure a broader user base, TippingPoint
provides this vulnerability information confidentially to security
vendors (including competitors) who have a vulnerability protection or
mitigation product.

Our vulnerability disclosure policy is available online at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/disclosure_policy/