
Date: Fri, 10 Nov 2006 09:19:05 -0800
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-06-039: Marshal MailMarshal ARJ Extraction Directory Traversal
 Vulnerability

ZDI-06-039: Marshal MailMarshal ARJ Extraction Directory Traversal
            Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-06-039.html
November 10, 2006

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2006-5487

-- Affected Vendor:
Marshal

-- Affected Products:
MailMarshal SMTP 5.x
MailMarshal SMTP 6.x
MailMarshal SMTP 2006
MailMarshal for Exchange 5.x

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since October 24, 2005 by Digital Vaccine protection
filter ID 3877, 3878. For further product information on the TippingPoint 
IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Marshal MailMarshal (formerly of NetIQ).
Authentication is not required to exploit this vulnerability.

The specific flaw exists within the extraction and scanning of ARJ
compressed attachments. Due to incorrect sandboxing of extracted
filenames that contain directory traversal modifiers such as "../", an
attacker can cause an executable to be created in an arbitrary
location.

While currently existing files can not be over written, an attacker may
leverage this vulnerability in a number of ways. For example, by placing
a malicious binary in the "all users" startup folder.

-- Vendor Response:
Marshal has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More details
can be found at:

http://www.marshal.com/kb/article.aspx?id=11450

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2006.07.17 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2005.10.24 - Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint customers
2006.11.10 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by an anonymous researcher.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.
