
Date: Tue, 8 Mar 2011 11:19:43 -0500 (EST)
From: R P Herrold <herrold@...river.com>
To: oss-security@...ts.openwall.com
Subject: Vendor-sec hosting and future of closed lists

On Tue, 8 Mar 2011, Josh Bressers wrote:

prior content, not from Josh:
>> We would also be willing to host and maintain a closed vendor-sec style
>> mailing list like the previous one with the only condition for member
>> list to be public (not necessarily the individual contact names but at
>> least the entities represented).

I guess I do not see the reason for such a listing.  The list 
that Josh put together from memory does not include the 
distributions I represented and coordinated vendor-sec matters 
for.  Having such a list just offers better target 
identification of those NOT on the list and thus may lag a 
CRD, no?  How is this beneficial?

> There is also the option of recreating an old style list. This is a bit
> more ad-hoc and Openwall has already offered to host such a thing (Solar
> has quite a bit already in place). I do favor this a bit, as it would make
> a nice compliment to oss-security

I favor such as well - I posted an offer to host such pro bono 
as a neutral vendor (centos inherently trails), but it was 
caught up in the trashing of the old vendor-sec host and so 
did not ever pass the old list.  Openwall's offer is fine by 
me as well.   I mentioned adding opportunistic SSL/TLS 
transport on the mailserver, to cut out casual MitM 
eavesdropping

> 1) Membership management is a pain. Adding new people is annoying and
>   nobody ever leaves.
> 2) Nobody is in charge, which means sometimes issues can get ignored or
>   forgotten (also see #1)

These track together -- mailman or such will cull dead email 
accounts that bounce of course, but that is a pretty mild form 
of management.  Absent a charter to somehow mandate some 
'contribution' to remain on a list, there is not a clear rule 
to 'weed' the list.  But is this really needed except from 
some idea of avoiding 'too many eyes'?  Frankly running a 
distribution is work and for non-commercial distributions, 
unpaid work

If a criteria for remaining on the list is needed, it is 
needed to make sure that eyes are still reading the content -- 
handle that with a periodic 'tracer' piece, and drop 
non-responders

-- Russ herrold
 	(centos, cAos)
