
Date: Wed, 14 May 2008 15:49:22 +0200
From: Stefano Zanero <zanero@...t.polimi.it>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: CFP: European Conference on Computer Network Defense

CALL FOR PAPERS: EC2ND 2008

European Conference on Computer Network Defense (in cooperation with ENISA)

December 11th & 12th 2008, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland.

http://2008.ec2nd.org/

Call for Papers

The fourth annual EC2ND conference will take place on December 11th & 12th
2008 in the Faculty of Engineering and Computing at Dublin City University.
The theme of the conference is the protection of computer networks. As with
past EC2ND conferences, this year's event will encourage participants from
academia and industry within Europe and beyond to discuss current topics in
applied network and systems security.

EC2ND 2008 invites submissions presenting novel ideas at an early stage
with
the intention to act as a discussion forum and feedback channel for
promising, innovative security research. While our goal is to solicit ideas
that are not completely worked out, and might have challenging and
interesting open questions, we expect submissions to be supported by some
evidence of feasibility or preliminary quantitative results.

Topics include but are not limited to:

Intrusion Detection
Denial-of-Service
Privacy Protection
Security Policies
Peer-to-Peer and Grid Security
Network Monitoring
Web Security
Vulnerability Management and Tracking
Network Forensics
Wireless and Mobile Security
Cryptography
Network Discovery and Mapping
Incident Response and Management
Malicious Software
Web Services Security
Legal and Ethical Issues


Important Dates

Paper Submission Deadline: September 1st, 2008
Notification of Acceptance: September 18th, 2008
Final Paper Due: October 1st, 2008
Conference Dates: December 11th & 12th, 2008


Organisers

Conference & General Chair
Liam Meany, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland.

Programme Co-Chairs
Dr. Sotiris Ioannidis, FORTH, Heraklion, Greece.
Dr. Kostas Anagnostakis, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore.

Programme Review Committee
Prof. Gritzalis Stefanos, University of the Agean, Greece.
Dr. Stefano Zanero, Milano Technical University, Milan, Italy.
Christopher Kruegel , University of California, Santa Barbara,USA.
Prof. Diomidis Spinellis, Athens University, Greece.
Eric Cronin, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.
Prof. George Polyzos, University of California, San Diego, USA.
Dr. Panagiotis Trimintzios, ENISA, Heraklion, Greece.
Sandro Etalle, Technical University of Eindhoven, Holland.
Michalis Polychronakis, University of Crete, Greece.
Prof. Javier Lopez, University of Malaga, Spain.
Dr. Theo Tryfonas, University of Glamorgan, Wales, UK.
Prof. Engin Kirda, Eurecom Graduate School, Cote d'Azur, France.
Thorsten Holz, University of Mannheim, Germany.
Prof. Herbert Bos, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Holland.
David Brumley, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, USA.
Marco Cremonini, UniversitÃ  degli Studi di Milano, Milan.
Dr. Ulrike Meyer, Darmstadt University of Technology, Darmstadt, Germany.
Dr. Philippe Owezarski, National Centre for Scientific Research,
Toulouse, France.
Dr. George Danezis, ESAT, Flanders, Belgium.
Dr. Austin Donnelly, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK.
Prof. Angelos Stavrou, George Mason University, Virginia, USA.
Dr. Sven Ubik, CESNET Research, Czech Republic.
Cyril Onwubiko, Kingston University, London, UK.
Dr. Mike Scott, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland.
Carlos Ribeiro, IST, Lisbon, Portugal.

Steering Committee
Prof. Evangelos Markatos, FORTH, Heraklion, Greece.
Dr. Panagiotis Trimintzios, ENISA, Heraklion, Greece.
Dr. Andrew J Blyth, University of Glamorgan, Wales, UK.
Dr. Sotiris Ioannidis, FORTH, Heraklion, Greece.
Dr. Kostas Anagnostakis, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore.
Prof. Vasilios Siris, University of Crete, Greece.
Anna Doxastaki, FORTH, Heraklion, Greece.
Dr. Theo Tryfonas, University of Glamorgan, Wales, UK.

-- 
Cordiali saluti,
Stefano Zanero

Politecnico di Milano - Dip. Elettronica e Informazione
Via Ponzio, 34/5 I-20133 Milano - ITALY
Tel.    +39 02 2399-4017
Fax.    +39 02 2399-3411
E-mail: zanero@...t.polimi.it
Web:    http://home.dei.polimi.it/zanero/

