
Date: Tue, 09 Sep 2008 19:38:46 -0500
From: iDefense Labs <labs-no-reply@...fense.com>
To: vulnwatch@...nwatch.org, full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk,
	bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: iDefense Security Advisory 09.09.08: Apple QuickTime PICT Integer
 Overflow Vulnerability

iDefense Security Advisory 09.09.08
http://labs.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/
Sep 09, 2008

I. BACKGROUND

Quicktime is Apple's media player product, and is used to render video
and other media. The PICT file format was developed by Apple Inc. in
1984. PICT files can contain both object oriented images and bitmaps.
For more information visit the vendor's web site at the following URL.

http://www.apple.com/quicktime/

II. DESCRIPTION

Remote exploitation of an integer overflow in Apple Inc.'s QuickTime
could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code in the security
context of the current user.

QuickTime is vulnerable to an integer overflow vulnerability when
handling malformed PICT files. This issue results in heap corruption
which can lead to arbitrary code execution.

III. ANALYSIS

Exploitation of this issue results in arbitrary code execution in the
security context of the current user. An attacker would need to host a
web page containing a malformed PICT file. Upon visiting the malicious
web page exploitation would occur. Alternatively a malicious PICT file
could be attached to an e-mail.

IV. DETECTION

Apple Inc.'s QuickTime versions 7.4.5 and 7.4 have been confirmed to be
vulnerable to this issue. Older versions are also suspected to be
vulnerable.

V. WORKAROUND

iDefense recommends disabling the QuickTime Plug-in and altering the
.pic and .pict file type associations within the registry. Disabling
the plug-in will prevent web browsers from utilizing QuickTime Player
to view associated media files. Removing the file type associations
within the registry will prevent QuickTime Player and Picture Viewer
from opening .pic and .pict files.

VI. VENDOR RESPONSE

Apple has released QuickTime 7.5.5 which resolves this issue. More
information is available via Apple's QuickTime Security Update page at
the URL shown below.

http://support.apple.com/kb/HT3027

VII. CVE INFORMATION

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project has assigned the
name CVE-2008-3614 to this issue. This is a candidate for inclusion in
the CVE list (http://cve.mitre.org/), which standardizes names for
security problems.

VIII. DISCLOSURE TIMELINE

05/13/2008  Initial vendor notification
05/22/2008  Initial vendor response
09/09/2008  Coordinated public disclosure

IX. CREDIT

The discoverer of this vulnerability wishes to remain anonymous.

Get paid for vulnerability research
http://labs.idefense.com/methodology/vulnerability/vcp.php

Free tools, research and upcoming events
http://labs.idefense.com/

X. LEGAL NOTICES

Copyright © 2008 iDefense, Inc.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert
electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express
written consent of iDefense. If you wish to reprint the whole or any
part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically,
please e-mail customerservice@...fense.com for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate
at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use
of the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS condition.
 There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct,
indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or
reliance on, this information.
