
Date: Wed, 31 Oct 2007 18:18:00 -0500
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-064: Novell Client Trust Heap Overflow Vulnerability

ZDI-07-064: Novell Client Trust Heap Overflow Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-064.html
October 25, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-5767

-- Affected Vendor:
Novell

-- Affected Products:
BorderManager 3.8

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Novell software which utilize the Novell
Client Trust. Authentication is not required to exploit this
vulnerability.

The specific flaw exists in the Novell Client Trust application,
clntrust.exe, which listens by default on UDP port 3024 on Novell
client machines. During a validation request, the Client Trust process
copies a user-supplied Novell tree name until a wide-character
backslash or a NULL is encountered. If neither is found within the
data, the process will copy excess data which later overflows a static
buffer during a call to wsprintfA.


-- Vendor Response:
Novell has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More details
can be found at:

   http://download.novell.com/Download?buildid=AuOWp2Xsvmc~

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2007.07.17 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.10.25 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by uvinc.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
