
Date: Wed, 31 Oct 2007 18:13:45 -0500
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-059: Verity KeyView SDK Multiple File Format Parsing Vulnerabilities

ZDI-07-059: Verity KeyView SDK Multiple File Format Parsing 
Vulnerabilities
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-059.html
October 23, 2007

-- CVE ID:


-- Affected Vendor:
Verity

-- Affected Products:
KeyView SDK

-- Vulnerability Details:
Several vulnerabilities exist in the popular Verity KeyView SDK used in
many enterprise applications like IBM Lotus Notes. When parsing
several different file formats a standard stack overflow occurs
allowing a malicious user to gain complete control of the affected
machine under the rights of the currently logged in user. The problem
lies when copying user supplied data to a stack based buffer without
any boundary conditions.

The following file formats have been identified as vulnerable:

Adobe Acrobat FrameMaker - .mif
Applix Words - .aw
Microsoft Rich Text Format - .rtf
Portable Executable - .exe
Dynamic Link Library - .dll
Applix Presents - .ag
Microsoft Word - .doc

-- Vendor Response:
IBM has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More details can
be found at:

   http://www-1.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?rs=899&uid=swg21272836 

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2006.06.16 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.10.23 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by Eric DETOISIEN.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
