
Date: Wed, 31 Oct 2007 18:14:03 -0500
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-060: HP OpenView Radia Integration Server File System Exposure
 Vulnerability

ZDI-07-060: HP OpenView Radia Integration Server File System Exposure 
Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-060.html
October 23, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-5413

-- Affected Vendor:
Hewlett-Packard

-- Affected Products:
HP OpenView Radia Integration Server

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since December 21, 2006 by Digital Vaccine protection
filter ID 4942. For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to access arbitrary files on
systems with vulnerable installations of Hewlett-Packard OpenView Radia
Integration Server. Authentication is not required to exploit this
vulnerability.

The specific flaw exists within the HTTP server bound by default to TCP
port 3465. Insufficient checks on URLs containing paths such as '~root'
allows attackers to access arbitrary files in the underlying OS.
Accessing configuration files that contain LDAP and database
credentials can lead to further compromise.

-- Vendor Response:
Hewlett-Packard has issued an update to correct this vulnerability.

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2006.12.18 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2006.12.21 - Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint customers
2007.10.23 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by an anonymous researcher.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
