
Date: Thu, 17 Jan 2008 17:40:08 -0600
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-08-002: Citrix Presentation Server IMA Service Heap Overflow
 Vulnerability

ZDI-08-002: Citrix Presentation Server IMA Service Heap Overflow 
Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-08-002.html
January 17, 2008

-- Affected Vendor:
Citrix

-- Affected Products:
Metaframe Presentation Server 3.0
Presentation Server 4.0, 4.5
Access Essentials 1.0, 1.5, 2.0
Desktop Server 1.0

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 5469. 
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Citrix Presentation Server. Authentication
is not required to exploit this vulnerability.

The specific flaw resides in the Independent Management Architecture
service, ImaSrv.exe, which listens by default on TCP port 2512 or 2513.
The process trusts a user-suppled value as a parameter to a memory
allocation. By supplying a specific value, an undersized heap buffer
may be allocated. Subsequently, an attacker can then overflow that heap
buffer by sending an overly large packet leading to arbitrary code
execution in the context of the SYSTEM user.


-- Vendor Response:
Citrix has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More details
can be found at:

http://support.citrix.com/article/CTX114487

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2007.07.20 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2008.01.17 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by Eric DETOISIEN.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
