
Date: Thu, 17 Feb 2005 00:55:20 -0800
From: "Marc Maiffret" <mmaiffret@...e.com>
To: <BUGTRAQ@...URITYFOCUS.COM>
Subject: Remote Windows Kernel Exploitation - Step Into the Ring 0

Remote Windows Kernel Exploitation - Step Into the Ring 0
http://www.eeye.com/html/resources/whitepapers/research/index.html

Over 5 years ago my friend and colleague Barnaby Jack wrote a seminal
paper that brought a new level of awareness and understanding to Windows
based buffer overflow exploitation. What was once a topic considered to
be something to be spoken in dark corners is now a critical area of
research by software firms wishing to write secure applications. Times
have changed though and so has the vulnerability landscape. The demand
for host based security solutions and improved application performance
has caused many new software solutions to move more and more of their
application code into the kernel. After reviewing various products it is
apparent that the same security minded principles being applied to
writing secure userland code, are not being enforced or thought-out for
kernel based code. There has been a large increase in vulnerabilities
discovered over the last year that affect kernel drivers. There has not
however been an increase in awareness around the exploitability and the
criticality of these vulnerabilities. Just as it was five years ago Mr.
Jack has written a paper that embarks on a journey into demystifying
remote windows kernel exploitation and settling the debate once and for
all. We hope that writers of kernel code take note and think about how
these types of attacks can affect their products. Does the same sort of
peer-review, and source code analysis take place for your kernel code?
And as researchers are we pushing ourselves hard enough to advance the
science of security? Security can be an arms race and we need to be
creating this technical awareness, instead of the next worm doing it for
us.

Signed,
Marc Maiffret
Chief Hacking Officer
eEye Digital Security
T.949.349.9062
F.949.349.9538
http://eEye.com/Retina - Network Security Scanner
http://eEye.com/Iris - Network Traffic Analyzer
http://eEye.com/SecureIIS - Stop known and unknown IIS vulnerabilities 

Important Notice: This email is confidential, may be legally privileged,
and is for the intended recipient only. Access, disclosure, copying,
distribution, or reliance on any of it by anyone else is prohibited and
may be a criminal offense.  Please delete if obtained in error and email
confirmation to the sender. 

Download attachment "winmail.dat" of type "application/ms-tnef" (3530 bytes)
