
Date: Tue, 04 Oct 2005 17:43:23 +0200
From: thomas@...e.de (Thomas Biege)
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Call for Papers - DIMVA 2006



---------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            CALL FOR PAPERS

                               DIMVA 2006

                    Third GI SIG SIDAR Conference on
      Detection of Intrusions & Malware, and Vulnerability Assessment

                          In Cooperation with
        IEEE Computer Society Task Force on Information Assurance

                           Berlin, Germany
                          July 13 - 14, 2006

                    http://www.dimva.org/dimva2006
                         mailto:info@...va.org

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The special interest group Security - Intrusion Detection and Response
(SIDAR) of the German Informatics Society (GI) organizes DIMVA as an annual
conference that brings together experts from throughout and outside of
Europe to discuss the state of the art in the areas of intrusion detection,
malware detection, and vulnerability assessment. DIMVA invites three types
of submissions:

- Full papers of up to 20 pages, presenting novel and mature research
  results. Full papers will be reviewed, and papers accepted for
  presentation at the conference will be included in the proceedings. The
  proceedings are planned to appear in Springer's Lecture Notes in Computer
  Science (LNCS) series.

- Industry papers of up to 10 pages, describing best practices, case
  studies, lessons learned, or latest product developments. Industry papers
  will be reviewed and, if accepted for presentation at the conference,
  published on the DIMVA 2006 Web site.

- Proposals of two-to-three-hour tutorials on topics of current or emerging
  interest. Tutorial proposals must not exceed 3 pages. They must clearly
  identify the intended audience, include a brief biography of the speaker,
  and contain sufficient material to provide a sense of their scope and
  depth. Tutorial material will be published on the DIMVA 2006 Web site.

The scope of DIMVA is broad and includes, but is not restricted to the
following areas:

Vulnerability Assessment:
- Vulnerabilities and exploitation techniques
- Vulnerability detection
- Avoidance of vulnerabilities and software testing
- Reverse engineering
- ROI on vulnerability assessment and management

Intrusion Detection:
- Intrusion techniques
- Intrusion detection and event correlation
- Intrusion response and intrusion prevention
- Benchmarking of intrusion detection and prevention systems
- Incident management and response

Malware:
- Malware techniques
- Malware detection
- Malware prevention
- Benchmarking of malware detection and prevention systems
- Computer and network forensics

DIMVA particularly encourages papers that discuss the technical as well as
the organizational integration of vulnerability, intrusion and malware
detection techniques and systems for large-scale communication and
enterprise networks.

Furthermore, papers from other communities such as law-making, law
enforcement, economics and public administration that present these
communities' perspectives on and contributions to the above IT security
issues are welcomed.


ORGANIZING COMMITTEE
--------------------
General Chair: Pavel Laskov, Fraunhofer FIRST, Germany,
               laskov@...st.fhg.de
Program Chair: Roland Bueschkes, T-Mobile, Germany,
               roland.bueschkes@...obile.de
Sponsor Chair: Marc Heuse, n.runs, Germany,
               marc.heuse@...ns.com


PROGRAM COMMITTEE
-----------------
Dominique Alessandri, IBM Global Services, Switzerland
Thomas Biege, SUSE LINUX Products GmbH, Germany
Marc Dacier, Institut Eurecom, France
Herve Debar, France Telecom R&D, France
Sven Dietrich, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Toralv Dirro, McAfee, Germany
Ulrich Flegel, University of Dortmund, Germany
Dirk Haeger, BSI, Germany
Bernhard Haemmerli, HTA Luzern, Switzerland
Oliver Heinz, arago AG, Germany
Peter Herrmann, NTNU Trondheim, Norway
Marc Heuse, n.runs, Germany
Erland Jonsson, Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden
Klaus Julisch, IBM Research, USA
Engin Kirda, Technical University Vienna, Austria
Hartmut Koenig, BTU Cottbus, Germany
Klaus-Peter Kossakowski, DFN-Cert, Germany
Christopher Kruegel, Technical University Vienna, Austria
Jens Meggers, Symantec, USA
Michael Meier, BTU Cottbus, Germany
Achim Mueller, Deutsche Telekom Laboratories, Germany
Martin Naedele, ABB Corporate Research, Switzerland
Dirk Schadt, Computer Associates, Germany
Window Snyder, Chordata Security, USA
Robin Sommer, ICIR/ICSI, USA
Axel Tanner, IBM Research, Switzerland
Marco Thorbruegge, ENISA, Greece
Stephen Wolthusen, Gjovik University College, Norway


IMPORTANT DATES
---------------
- January 13, 2006: Deadline for submission of full and industry papers.
- March 3, 2006: Deadline for submission of tutorial proposals.
- March 22, 2006: Notification of acceptance or rejection.
- April 13, 2006: Final paper camera ready copy due.
- July 13-14, 2006: DIMVA conference.


PAPER SUBMISSIONS AND CONFERENCE REGISTRATION
---------------------------------------------
All submissions must be in English, and in either postscript or PDF format.
Authors of accepted papers must ensure that their papers will be presented
at the conference. Presentations should be held in English.

Submitted full papers must not substantially overlap papers that have been
published or that are simultaneously submitted to a journal or a conference
with proceedings.

Authors of accepted full papers must follow the Springer Information for
Authors' guidelines for the preparation of the manuscript and use the
templates provided there (http://www.springer.de/comp/lncs/authors.html).

Details on the electronic submission procedure as well as detailed
registration information will be provided by end of December 2005 on the
conference Web site.


SPONSORSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
-------------------------
We solicit interested organizations to serve as sponsors for DIMVA 2006;
please contact the Sponsor Chair, Mr. Marc Heuse, for information regarding
corporate sponsorship (mailto: marc.heuse@...ns.com).


STEERING COMMITTEE
------------------
Chairs:  Ulrich Flegel, University of Dortmund, Germany
         Michael Meier, BTU Cottbus, Germany

Members: Roland Bueschkes, T-Mobile, Germany
         Marc Heuse, n.runs, Germany
         Klaus Julisch, IBM Research, USA
         Christopher Kruegel, Technical University Vienna, Austria


