
Date: Fri, 3 Aug 2012 20:35:45 +0200
From: fukami <lists@....io>
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com,
  dailydave@...ts.immunitysec.com, websecurity@...appsec.org
Subject: 29C3: Call for Participation for 29th Chaos Communication Congress

Call for Participation for 29th Chaos Communication Congress
27|28|29|30 December 2012, Hamburg, Germany

The Event
=========

The Chaos Communication Congress is an annual four-day conference
organized by the Chaos Computer Club (CCC). First held in 1984, it has
since established itself as “The European Hacker Conference”
attracting a diverse audience of thousands of hackers, scientists,
artists, and practical utopists from all around the world.

29C3 will be an entirely new Congress experience. The location will
change to the city of Hamburg in northern Germany to provide a large
venue to the growing number of enthusiastic participants of the
Congress who have always been much more than just visitors. Expect a
spirit more similar to that of outdoor hacking events like the CCC
Camp, just indoors. There will be room for all kind of fun activities,
smaller informal talks and workshops, more permanent installations and
way more options to relax and socialise. To make this happen, we offer
lots of space for groups to set up installations, project
demonstrations, small workshops and come together in a village-style
setting like you know it from the CCC Camps.

Keeping that in mind, we invite you to send us proposals for talks,
lectures and workshops on all topics of relevance, also bring your
installations and projects. The following areas are of particular
interest:

- Hackers as the digital armourer for the coming cyberwars?
- Ethical responsibility of exceptional talents and powers
- Dancing with the devil – funding models for research and
development, risks and ethical dilemmata
- DPI (deep packet inspection) – current state of introduction,
breaking, circumvention and political situation
- Mobile Device Hacking and Telecommunications Security, Security of Apps
- Privacy enhancing technologies – next generation anonymity systems,
filesharing security, overlay networks, encryption
- Privacy in the age of Big Data – policy options, power questions and
new human rights
- Net and device neutrality – ownership, censorship, circumvention and
the politics of de-facto standards, search engine politics
- Novel Exploitation Techniques for all kind of technology
- Programming languages — state of the art and research
- Future or no future of IT security – state of fail, new concepts and
methods, implications for society and infrastructure
- Retrocomputing, Video Game Culture and Art
- Molecular cuisine and kitchen hacks
- Cryptography, Cryptoanalysis and Cryptopolitics
- Reverse Engineering, Forensics and Anti-Forensics – Technology, Law
and Politics
- New economic systems – alternatives to the collapsing financial
markets, micropayment and electronic currencies
- Energy – concepts for a future world with scarce and expensive
energy ressources
- Robotics – humanoid, football playing, autonomous vehicles, (armed)
drones, ethics, utopias and dystopias
- Social Networks – unexpected use, abuse and analysis
- New ways of education, learning, teaching
- Politics and technology of surveillance and opression – state
trojans, interception, social media monitoring, laws and
countermovements
- Xenolinguistics and languages of non-human intelligences, possibly
from outer space
- Revolutions and Hacktivism
- Clouds – hacking, breaking, unexpected usage
- Competitive soldering
- Lockpicking
- Transparency and participation in politics and governance
- Copyright and Patents – the war on filesharing, alternatives to the
current system
- Making and fabbing – technologies, tools, economy, models for sharing
- Transportation – hacking, usage privacy, innovation and new concepts
for an energy starved era
- Fun with large datasets and visualizing data
- Hacker Space Program, Space Travel and Satellites – technology,
goals and ethics


Submission Guidelines
=====================

For Talks, Lectures and Workshops:

Please try to submit a meaningful and complete description that tells
us about your presentation. The description is all the content comitee
has to judge your submission by, so better be convincing. Quality, not
size does matter. Sales and marketing droids are known to vanish
without any trace at the congress, please refrain from submitting
company or product propaganda. Also consider that other people may
submit a talk on the same topic, so please indicate why your talk is
special. Feel free to also include some facts about yourself and your
motivation. We don’t care if your talk has already been held at a
conference on the other side of the world, but please make sure your
content is up-to-date.

Lectures should not exceed 45 minutes plus up to 15 minutes for
questions and answers. Longer time slots are possible if we feel the
topic demands it (please tell us if necessary). Due to the success at
last year’s 28C3, there will also be slots for 20 minutes. Please
state the length of your presentation clearly on your submission.
There are also five-minute “lightning talk” slots for “I have written
this cool thing”-announcements, “someone should do this”-rants and
other brief contributions. Those are not reviewed by our content team,
check the wiki-page beforehand.

For Projects, Installations and other fun stuff:

A formal submission is not required. There will be a Wiki with some
guidelines on the data needed to plan for space and other
requirements. Feel free to already start thinking about what you may
want to bring, show or organize so you are ready when the Wiki goes
online. There will be lots of space, so we are very open for crazy and
surprising things to show up.

Language of the Presentation:

While the 29C3 is an international conference that aims to present
lots of content in English, we would rather have a good presentation
in German than a bad one in so-called Denglisch. So please be honest
when judging your language skills and choose your lecture language
accordingly. There is no language bias in judging the merrit of
submissions. There is a live-translation project that hopes to provide
cross-translation for many lectures.

Publication:

Audio and video recordings of the lectures will be published online in
various formats. All material will be available under a Creative
Commons Attribution 3.0 Germany License.
Note that this license allows for the commercial use of the content to
allow media organisations to use snippets from lecture recordings for
their reporting. If you wish to use alternatively a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Germany License or if you require that
your lecture is not recorded or streamed at all, please state this
with your submission.
If you don’t tell us otherwise, audio and video of your lecture will
be under Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Germany License.

Travel expenses:

The Chaos Communication Congress is a non-profit oriented event and
speakers are not paid. However, financial help on travel expenses and
accommodation is possible. It needs to be agreed upon after acceptance
of the submission, though. Don’t be shy and state your requirements in
the application when submitting your lecture and we’ll work something
out.

Dates and Deadlines:

- September 30th, 2012 (23:59 UTC): Submission deadline
- November 15th, 2012: Final notification of acceptance
- December 27th – 30th, 2012: Chaos Communication Congress

Online Submissions only:

All talks, lecture and workshop proposals must be submitted online
using our online lecture submission system at
https://cccv.pentabarf.org/submission/29C3.
Please follow the instructions given there. If you have any questions
regarding your submission, feel free to contact us at
29c3-content(at)cccv.de
