
Date: Thu, 28 Jul 2011 21:25:25 +0100
From: ZDI Disclosures <zdi-disclosures@...pingpoint.com>
To: "'full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk'" <full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk>,
  "'bugtraq@...urityfocus.com'" <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: ZDI-11-244: (0day) FlexNet License Server Manager lmadmin Remote
 Code Execution Vulnerability

ZDI-11-244: (0day) FlexNet License Server Manager lmadmin Remote Code Execution Vulnerability

http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-11-244

July 28, 2011

-- CVSS:
9, (AV:N/AC:L/Au:N/C:P/I:P/A:C)

-- Affected Vendors:
Flexera Software

-- Affected Products:
Flexera Software FlexNet License Server Manager

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 11526. 
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS, visit:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Flexera Software Flexnet License Server
Manager. Authentication is not required to exploit this vulnerability.

The flaw exists within the lmadmin component which listens by default on
TCP port 27000 (this can vary however if the port is in use). When
handling a packet type having the opcode 0x2f the process trusts a user
provided value when calculating the bytes remaining in the packet. Using
this tainted remaining length value the process then copies packet data
into a buffer on the heap. A remote attacker can exploit this
vulnerability to execute arbitrary code under the context of the lmadmin
user.

-- Vendor Response:
Flexera Software states:
[July 28, 2011] - This vulnerability is being disclosed publicly without
a patch in accordance with the ZDI 180 day deadline.

Mitigation supplied by vendor:
This report has been entered into Flexera Softwares technical support
case tracking system as IOC-000086525. The FlexNet License Server
Manager components (lmgrd, lmadmin, and each vendor daemon) are only
intended to be deployed in networks that are controlled by the recipient
of FlexNet-enabled software. In particular, they are not intended to be
deployed on the internet or in a public cloud. Flexera Software
acknowledges that the deployment environments available to the FlexNet
License Server Manager components are increasing and Flexera Software is
considering supporting new deployment environments for these components
in future releases of its products.

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2011-01-24 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2011-07-28 - Public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by:
    * Luigi Auriemma

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is
used. TippingPoint does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any
exploit code. Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor,
TippingPoint provides its customers with zero day protection through
its intrusion prevention technology. Explicit details regarding the
specifics of the vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until
an official vendor patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the
altruistic aim of helping to secure a broader user base, TippingPoint
provides this vulnerability information confidentially to security
vendors (including competitors) who have a vulnerability protection or
mitigation product.

Our vulnerability disclosure policy is available online at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/disclosure_policy/

Follow the ZDI on Twitter:

    http://twitter.com/thezdi

