
Date: Wed, 01 Feb 2006 16:25:32 -0600 (CST)
From: Johan A.van Zanten <johan@...anglers.com>
To: jdo24@...nell.edu
Cc: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Re: Blackboard Authentication Error



jdo24@...nell.edu wrote:
> Hello,
> 
> Here at my university we use Blackboard as the chosen tool for having
> online class websites, grading, chatrooms, announcements, quizzing,
> etc., in a convenient fashion.

> Blackboard works alongside our Kerberos authentication to be sure that
> the person who is accessing the information is the correct one.

What version of Blackboard are you talking about?  Do you realize that the
Kerberos Authentication you're describing is non standard (to Bb), and the
problem you are warning about could be due to something unique to your
site?

For example, the issue really could be that Kerberos credentials are still
stored on the machine running the web browser you were using, and they are
being reused by the browser.

> Tonight I discovered that there is a way that Blackboard fails in doing
> this.  When Blackboard has been idle for so long (ten minutes or so, I
> think), it will de-authenticate you from accessing resources.  So, let's
> say I'm logged in as mrm5, I use it, then I walk away from the computer.

For longer than 10 minutes?  Did the session timeout in Bb? 

> If someone comes up and tries to gain access to the still-up Blackboard
> site, after they click a link they will be prompted with a password
> entry screen.

Session timeouts are a site-tunable parameter.  If sysadmins of your
installation want to make this even less than 10 minutes, they probably
can.

> This presumably means that in order to access mrm5's stuff, you need to
> enter mrm5's information.  But, instead, if you enter another user's
> information, such as ppq2, and enter the correct password for ppq2, you
> will now be logged in under mrm5's account instead of ppq2's, and able
> to do everything that mrm5 could have if they were logged in, including
> changing personal information, "enrolling" in class, making posts on
> boards, taking quizzes, etc.

 What a user can do (enroll, etc) is also a site-specific parameter.  Not
all installations of Bb allow the users to do all of the tasks you
describe here.

> I have no idea and no way of checking to see if other universities are
> susceptible to the same problem, but either way this is something that
> needs to be fixed.

 I believe there was a bug and fix reported (at least 6 months ago, maybe
as much as a year) for some instances where sessions were not being
completely cleared out, and one user could "inherit" the previous session
of a different user. Probably your best bet for getting this fixed is to
report it to your local sysadmins.  It's a distinct possibility that all
they need to do i install a patch or service pack.

 Presumably, being a concerned and responsible person, you reported this
to Blackboard, Inc.'s support months ago, before mailing it to bugtraq,
right? In case you aren't, here's some contact information so you can
report the bug to the vendor, now that you've already reported it to the
world:

Blackboard customer support:  (888) 788-5264

 However, their support system is geared towards known contacts at
customer sites calling in, so you are probably much better off reporting
this to Cornell's help desk and giving the Bb sysadmins there the info
they need to determine if the issue is a local problem or something
Cornell can take up with Bb.


 -johan


