
Date: Wed, 21 Jun 2023 16:02:28 +0200
From: Solar Designer <solar@...nwall.com>
To: oss-security@...ts.openwall.com
Subject: Re: Solar Designer talk about 15 years of oss-security at SSTIC conference

Hi all,

After SSTIC in Rennes, France, I also gave a revision of the talk at
BSidesLjubljana in Ljubljana, Slovenia.  Incidentally, this was SSTIC's
20th anniversary and the event was closed by a related talk on 20+ years
of CERT-FR and ANSSI, whereas this year's BSidesLjubljana was held in
the computer history museum, a fitting venue for the beginning of my
talk, which starts with a retrospective into the 1980s.

Here are the slides:

https://www.openwall.com/presentations/SSTIC-BSidesLjubljana2023-oss-security/

I've attached the Markdown source for these to this message.

Video of the SSTIC talk is available via the link to SSTIC conference
website, and I expect the same will be true for BSidesLjubljana soon.

I'd like to thank the organizers of both of these events for making them
so great.  It was a pleasant experience attending and speaking at these.

On Sat, Jun 10, 2023 at 10:04:44AM +0000, Katherine Mcmillan wrote:
> has there ever been any consideration of having an "oss-security-advocacy" list?

No, but your question got me thinking about it now.  I think that before
possibly setting up a new list, we should have that sort of discussions
in here - then see if we really want to move them to a separate list.

> I like seeing/sharing relevant updates like this.

I see no problem with them being right on the oss-security list.  While
we generally don't allow conference CFPs here, we do allow and encourage
relevant materials from conferences to be shared here.  A minor problem
is sharing actual content vs. links only - we want the actual content
for archival, but these days slide decks tend to be a bit too large
for relaying them to all list members most of whom don't need a copy.

On Tue, Jun 13, 2023 at 07:48:40PM +0300, Georgi Guninski wrote:
> I am missing the old full disclosure mailing list,
> there is little discussion on oss-security.

I'm all for more discussion, but I'd like it to be relevant and helpful.

Alexander

View attachment "SSTIC-BSidesLjubljana2023-oss-security.md" of type "text/plain" (10816 bytes)
