
Date: Mon, 17 Dec 2007 17:55:04 -0600
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-078: St. Bernard Open File Manager Heap Overflow Vulnerability

ZDI-07-078: St. Bernard Open File Manager Heap Overflow Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-078.html
December 17, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-6281

-- Affected Vendor:
St. Bernard

-- Affected Products:
Open File Manager 9.5

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 5506. 
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of St. Bernard Open File Manager.
Authentication is not required to exploit this vulnerability.

The specific flaw resides in the Open File Manager service, ofmnt.exe,
which listens by default on a random TCP port near 1000. The process
blindly copies user-suppled data to a static heap buffer. By supplying
an overly large amount of data, an attacker can overflow that buffer
leading to arbitrary code execution in the context of the SYSTEM user.


-- Vendor Response:
St. Bernard has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. Version
9.6 build 602 available to customers addresses this issue. Other
affected vendors such as Hewlett-Packard have made fixes available to
customers as well.

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2007.07.20 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.12.17 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by an anonymous researcher.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
