
Date: Fri, 22 Mar 2013 11:11:02 +0000
From: Major Malfunction <majormal@...ate-radio.org>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com, full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk,
  dc4420@...420.org
Subject: DC4420 - London DEFCON - March meet - Tuesday 26th March 2013

yes, it's that time of the month again and this time we have a speaker 
on a subject close to my heart - low level hardware hacking...


Speaker:

Dominic Spill


Title:

"Introducing Daisho - monitoring multiple communication technologies at 
the physical layer"

Synopsis:

Most communications media can be monitored and debugged at various 
levels of the stack, but we believe that it is most important to examine 
them at the physical layer. From there, the security of every level can 
be investigated and tested. The task of monitoring physical layer 
communications has become increasingly difficult as we try to squeeze 
more and more bandwidth out of our links. A passive tapping circuit can 
be used to monitor a 100BASE-TX connections, but no such circuit exists 
for 1000BASE-T networks.

Our solution to this problem is Project Daisho; an open source hardware 
and software project to build a device that can monitor high speed 
communication links and pass all of the data back to a host system for 
analysis. Daisho will include a modular, high bandwidth design that can 
be extended to monitor future technologies. The project will also 
produce the first open source USB 3.0 FPGA core, bringing high speed 
data transfer to any projects that build on the open platform.

As a proof of concept at this early stage, we will demonstrate 
monitoring of a low bandwidth RS-232 connection using our first round of 
hardware and discuss the challenges involved with the high speed targets 
such as 1000BASE-T and USB 3.0 that we will take on later this year.

***

so far we have no 'fun' talk, so if you've got something short and sweet 
ping me now!

Where:

    DOWNSTAIRS!@ The Phoenix, Cavendish Square

    http://www.phoenixcavendishsquare.co.uk/

    Oxford Circus nearest tube

When:

   Tuesday March 26th 2013

Venue ours from 17:30, talks start 19:30

see you next week!

cheers,
mm
"In DEFCON, we have no names..." errr... well, we do... but silly ones...
