
Date: Sat, 13 Jul 2013 17:39:06 +0200
From: Eric Freyssinet <eric.freyssinet@...il.com>
To: bugtraq <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: Botconf 2013 - Call for short talks - Deadline Aug 31 2013

Sorry for the cross posts

We are opening a second call for short talks aimed at young
researchers as well as beginning/ongoing projects. The deadline is
August 31st 2013.

This second call aims at offering the possibility
* for “young” researchers to present ongoing work, first results,
projects, specific tools to the community. By young researchers we
mean beginning researchers, either young by their age (engaged in
masters programmes or beginning a PhD) or young in research activities
(academic, industrial or independent);
* more generally for recent projects, ongoing research to present
their ideas, call for contributions, present first results.

Short talks will be given a 15 minutes timeslot each, plus 5 minutes
for questions.

**Authors are asked to propose a detailed abstract of their talk at
https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=botconf13 before August
31st 2013. Any documents to demonstrate the interest of the short talk
are welcome to accompany the proposal.**

Selected talks will be invited to propose short papers (4 pages) if
they want to be published on the Conference website (and any
publication that should be made). The paper should be prepared
according to the “Authors Instruction for LNCS” formatting guidelines
(http://www.springer.de/comp/lncs/authors.html), preferably using
LaTeX or otherwise Word. Simple presentations without a research paper
are also welcome.

Accepted papers

All accepted short talks will be included in the programme of the
conference, with time slots 15 + 5 minutes.

The programme and organising committees will consider requests from
students whose papers are accepted for financial assistance in
attending the conference (participation in the costs for travel and
accommodation). Financial assistance might also be provided on a
request basis by speakers demonstrating the need for that support and
depending on the final budget of the conference.

Logistical information for speakers: all accepted speakers (one
speaker per paper or presentation) will be invited for the speaker
dinner and have full access to the conference which will include
coffee breaks, two lunches and reception dinner.

Programme committee

Hendrik Adrian, CEO, KK KLJTECH, Tokyo, Japan
José Araujo, Deputy Head of the Applied and Fundamental Research
Division, French Network and Information Security Agency (ANSSI),
France
Domagoj Babic, Research Scientist, Facebook, Inc., United States of America
Gilles Berger-Sabbatel, Chargé de recherches, CNRS, Laboratoire
d’Informatique de Grenoble, France
Guillaume Bonfante, Assistant-Professor, Lorraine University, France
Nicolas Brulez, Malware expert, Kaspersky Lab, France
Alexandre Dulaunoy, Security Researcher, CIRCL, Computer Incident
Response Center Luxembourg, National CERT, Luxembourg
Barry Irwin, Associate Professor, Rhodes University, Computer Science,
South Africa
Denis Laskov, CTA, Arcnet LTD, Israël
Corrado Leita, Principal research engineer, Symantec, France
Jean-Yves Marion, Professor, LORIA, Université de Lorraine, France
David Naccache, Ecole Normale Supérieure, France
Fred Raynal, CEO, Quarkslab, France
Eric Freyssinet, Gendarmerie nationale (law enforcement) and Paris 6
University LIP6, France, programme committee chair

-- 
Eric Freyssinet
Chairman of Botconf'13 Organising committee
