
Date: Tue, 4 Nov 2008 14:53:57 -0600
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-08-072: Adobe Acrobat PDF Javascript printf Stack Overflow
 Vulnerability

ZDI-08-072: Adobe Acrobat PDF Javascript printf Stack Overflow 
Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-08-072
November 4, 2008

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2008-2992

-- Affected Vendors:
Adobe

-- Affected Products:
Adobe Acrobat

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Adobe Acrobat. User interaction is required
to exploit this vulnerability in that the target must visit a malicious
page or open a malicious file.

The specific flaw exists in the handling of embedded Javascript code
when opening a PDF.  Adobe Acrobat has defined it's own set of
Javascript functions that can be used in a PDF file.  Due to improper
parameter checking to one of these functions arbitrary memory can be
over-written leading to remote code execution.  If successfully
exploited remote control of the target system can be gained with the
credentials of the logged in user.

-- Vendor Response:
Adobe has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:

http://www.adobe.com/support/security/bulletins/apsb08-19.html

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2008-01-21 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2008-11-04 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by:
    * Peter Vreugdenhil

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is
used. TippingPoint does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any
exploit code. Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor,
TippingPoint provides its customers with zero day protection through
its intrusion prevention technology. Explicit details regarding the
specifics of the vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until
an official vendor patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the
altruistic aim of helping to secure a broader user base, TippingPoint
provides this vulnerability information confidentially to security
vendors (including competitors) who have a vulnerability protection or
mitigation product.

Our vulnerability disclosure policy is available online at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/disclosure_policy/

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
