
Date: Fri, 01 Dec 2006 16:01:27 -0500
From: iDefense Labs <labs-no-reply@...fense.com>
To: vulnwatch@...nwatch.org, full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk,
	bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: iDefense Security Advisory 12.01.06: Novell ZENworks Asset Management
 Msg.dll Heap Overflow Vulnerability

Novell ZENworks Asset Management Msg.dll Heap Overflow Vulnerability

iDefense Security Advisory 12.01.06
http://labs.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/
Dec 01, 2006

I. BACKGROUND

Novell Inc's ZENworks is a set of tools used to automate IT management and
business processes across the various computing resources within an
organization.

The Task Server and Collection server daemons provide functionality to
manage a distributed network of machines. These daemons will typically
only be running on the machine that is being used to manage assets.

For more information see http://www.novell.com/products/zenworks/

II. DESCRIPTION

Remote exploitation of an integer overflow vulnerability in Novell Inc.'s
ZENworks Asset Management could potentially allow an attacker to execute
arbitrary code with the privileges of the administrator.

A heap overflow may occur when processing specially crafted packets sent
to the Task Server or Collection Server daemons.  This problem
specifically exists due to an integer overflow when allocating memory for
remotely supplied data.

III. ANALYSIS

Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow a remote attacker
to take complete control of the affected system.

While researching this vulnerability, iDefense Labs found that the Task
Server and Collection Server components were both affected. Additionally,
the Collection Client is statically linked with this library. Information
on the vulnerability as it relates to the Collection Client can be found
in a separate advisory.

IV. DETECTION

iDefense has confirmed the existence of this vulnerability in version
7.0.0.36 of the CClient.exe and Msg.dll files included with Novell Inc's
ZENworks Asset Management 7.0 SP1. Older versions are suspected to be
vulnerable as well.

V. WORKAROUND

iDefense is unaware of any effective workaround for this issue.

VI. VENDOR RESPONSE

Novell's ZENworks team has addressed this vulnerability within ZENworks 7
Asset Management SP1 IR11. More information can be found by visiting
http://support.novell.com/cgi-bin/search/searchtid.cgi?/2974824.htm .

VII. CVE INFORMATION

A Mitre Corp. Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) number has not
been assigned yet.

VIII. DISCLOSURE TIMELINE

10/16/2006  Initial vendor notification
10/19/2006  Initial vendor response
12/01/2006  Coordinated public disclosure

IX. CREDIT

This vulnerability was reported to iDefense by Eric Detoisien.

Get paid for vulnerability research
http://labs.idefense.com/methodology/vulnerability/vcp.php

Free tools, research and upcoming events
http://labs.idefense.com/

X. LEGAL NOTICES

Copyright © 2006 iDefense, Inc.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert electronically.
It may not be edited in any way without the express written consent of
iDefense. If you wish to reprint the whole or any part of this alert in
any other medium other than electronically, please e-mail
customerservice@...fense.com for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate at
the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use of
the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS condition.
There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct, indirect,
or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or reliance on, this
information.

