
Date: Thu, 18 Aug 2011 15:44:08 -0700
From: Chris Travers <chris.travers@...il.com>
To: LedgerSMB Users <ledger-smb-users@...ts.sourceforge.net>,
  LedgerSMB <ledger-smb-announce@...ts.sourceforge.net>,
  Development discussion for LedgerSMB <ledger-smb-devel@...ts.sourceforge.net>,
  bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Security advisory: SQL Injection in LedgerSMB 1.2.24 and lower

Hi all;

The LedgerSMB development team has found an SQL injection issue in
LedgerSMB 1.2.24.  Because this issue stems from our common SQL-Ledger
heritage, it affects all versions of LedgerSMB and has been confirmed
in SQL-Ledger 2.8.33.   We contacted Dieter when we initially
discovered this and now three weeks later it is doubtful when this
will be fixed on his side  (his last communication said it was likely
to be at least a few more weeks from present with no committed
timeline).  It is expected that when SQL-Ledger 2.8.34 is released it
will contain a fix for this issue.

Versions affected:
SQL Ledger, all 2.6 and 2.8 versions, possibly older versions as well.
LedgerSMB production versions 1.2.24 and earlier
LedgerSMB trunk, SVN revisions up through 3598

Effect:
Allows arbitrary SQL commands to be run

Login required:  Yes

Overall impact:  In LedgerSMB 1.2 and SQL-Ledger, in typical setups,
this allows virtually all data in the database to be tampered with by
a successful attacker.  Audit trails can be overwritten, transactions
entered for fraudulent purposes, etc. This should be seen among these
users as a critical fix.

For those running LedgerSMB 1.3 snapshots, betas, etc, the
vulnerability could allow someone to enter invalid data into the
database.  However the actual audit trails etc, are generally expected
not to be subject to this tampering and the access to the database is
much narrower.  Remember that security is enforced by the database in
1.3.0 so this does not pose a privilege escalation issue as it would
in 1.2.x and below.  For this reason this should be seen among these
users as a moderately important problem, which should be fixed as soon
as possible but isn't as critical as it is on past versions.

We have released a fix for this issue.  It has not been fully
regression tested and therefore we recommend putting it through a
little testing before putting it into production.  This is the only
fix found in 1.2.25-rc1 (vs 1.2.24).  For those interested in
installing the normal way, please download from
https://sourceforge.net/projects/ledger-smb/files/Development%20Snapshots/1.2.25-rc1/

We expect 1.2.25 to hit general release by Monday assuming no problems
are found with this fix.

Those who are not able to upgrade are welcome to contact me for a
patch that contains the fix.  Again it should be put through some
testing before being put into production,

Credit for discovery of the problem goes to Erik Huelsmann.

We expect to release a full disclosure email with exploit information
in a few weeks, after everyone has a chance to upgrade.  The purpose
of that email will be to facilitate the development of automated
vulnerability tests by security vendors.

Thank you for your time,
Chris Travers
LedgerSMB Core Team
