
Date: Thu, 19 Jul 2007 22:34:14 +0100
From: "HACK THE GOV" <hackthegov@...glemail.com>
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: hackers are giving up hacking

"hackers are increasingly giving up hacking, why? because its become
boring, there is no glits and glam in ethical or malicious hacking
anymore. the reality of being a hacker. years of being on your own
infront of the computer screen, developing a nerdy shaped neck with a
bend in it and a weak bone structure and most likely a beer belly to
go. why? because that is the reality of hacking and the security
scene. it sounds sexier reading about it than it is doing it. sure the
outcome of a successful hack gives you a buzz, but is that buzz big
enough to invest your life on 1 minute of buzz? you could drive a
racing car and get that buzz whenever you wanted, so why slave through
hours of code and dedicate your life to hacking? sure, before hacking
was interesting , sure there was plenty going on, but apart from the
usual run-of-the-mill idefense security advisories there is nothing
stimulating enough in the security industry anymore, infact so much
so, folks are switching off their computers and heading outdoors into
the sun and getting fit in the gym, far from the realms of the
computer screen and the code that is sitting there wanting to be
hacked. in the professional world, in the beginning, folks were
interested in the large pay packet of the industry, with many security
jobs classed as gold dust and highly skilled I.T security folks are
very much a premium, but even these guys are switching off their
computers and changing career, for a more interesting and self
rewarding job, than boring computer ethical hacking. so where is the
threat going to be coming from now that individual users aren't the
threat anymore? yep folks, security is notching up a gear into a new
and more serious and sophisticated threat coming not from bedroom and
office 9 to 5 hackers but from government as a political tool attack
vector to get the point across on politcal views and posture. we see a
threat that is incoming and its from russia. russia has just fallen
out with the united kingdom and has exspelled uk diplomats from its
country and is refusing to corporate with the war on terror anymore,
america has called on russia to had over the top murder suspect of the
former russian spy, killed by radio active material in london last
year. russia denies any government involvement in the killing and is
saying there will be serious implications after the uk exspelled
russian diplomats, so right now its an eye for an eye as far as
international relations between uk and ru. there is no indication that
the matter is over with and russia "could" be planning cyber attacks
against united kingdom interests and the united states, because as we
see it all allies of the united kingdom are the same as the united
kingdom itself. the threat in security as spoken about briefly is now
coming from governments with large fire power against its enemies and
can affect not only government computer systems but also civilian
infrastructure that we all use, i'm not going to list all the ways our
lives could be hacked into accept to say a black out of electrity is
the best example but by no means the only or biggest threat example.
with russia now an enemy of the state, can we trust them not to get
upto anymore dirty tricks? i mean they only entered the uk and
poisoned an ex russian spy, so surely ddos'ing won't be out of the
question. russia could be experiemnting right now with bot nets and
their capabilities to teach the enemy a lession as far as fucking with
them is concerned, so the threat today is bigger than ever with
governments getting more into hacking and using that not only to
obtain classified government documents but to disable the
infrastructure of a country as a whole. so while we've switched off
our computers and thought the security scene wasn't very interesting
anymore and were unsubscribing our minds to more interesting
non-computer related activites an enemy has been brewing and the
future is surely uncertain, but will there be anyone left to care or
have we already left the security scene out of sheer boredom? i'm not
the only one whose noticed the extreme boredom which has assended on
the security news wires and mailing lists, other folks have too. its
not so much new techniques coming along but new threats using
conventional techniques. so what is going to happen when the big boy
hackers belonging to governments come out to play and attack the west?
will we counter attack them electronically and if we fail, will we
just send in a real life nuke and wipe out the country involved?
should a response to a cyber attack be in a cyber form or should we
use real life nukes to respond to a government such as russia cyber
attacking western interests? russia isn't only against the uk over the
killing of the ex spy, but russia is ramping up its anti-west status
with refusing to accept that a u.s anti missle defense system is not
there to attack russia. where in my view is the main governmental
cyber security threat coming from today? russia. we think russia is
the most likely, most capable country to cyber attack the west than
any other country, with capability and investment there to carry it
out. for the naked eye security is going to stay boring, for us geeks
and media journalists alike, security is just going to get more
boring, even if russia does cyber attack the west, there won't be much
evidence from home and office computers, it will be upto high ranking
folks to report an attack has been carried out. perhaps subscribing to
lists like nanog may help to know if attacks are happening, its
unlikely the government would admit a security breach has happened on
their networks, unless there was a poltical strategy to make the
public aware of it in order to soften them up for something bigger,
like tighter cyber security laws and a lessening of privacy for
consumers on the internet in the name of counter cyber terrorism. this
is what governments do, they either do get attacked by a legitmate
evil regime or they false flag attacks for themselves to get laws
passed and be OK'd by public opinion. what i'm getting at is we know
mainland terrorism is often false flagged by government, so could
cyber false flagging be on the intelligence services agaenda next?
they've already managed to manipulate us with mainland terrorism
propaganda to get tighter controls on the nation, so could the threat
not only be going to come from russial-like places, but from our own
government false flagging cyber attacks as well. these are the two
main problems the new dawn of the internet security scene is getting
worried about, governments getting into cyber terrorism really is
something the average joe should be concerned about, but not only
concerned about but ready for, not only in terms of having secure
patched systems, but in the mind not to fall for the united states
government moving into cyber security as a tool to manipulate the
average joe into OKing new laws that at the moment wouldn't be allowed
by the public without major outcries and protests on the streets.
mainland attacks in the false flagging side of things is far too
costly right now with Iraq situation and other mid east operations,
that the government aren't wanting more mainland issues to deal with,
thats why cyber attacks against regimes are far more platable for the
intelligence services right now. so what i'm i saying? are we going to
have an attack by russia or a false flag attack by the united states
to ramp up the anti cyber terrorism agenda in congress and across the
wider world? we don't actually know, there is no specific intelligence
to suggest its being planned by either governments, but thats not to
say its not plausable and likely to happen in the future. as the
government soak up whats going on in the middle east and more and more
political figures come out to slam the mess that is iraq, a new third
world war is ont he horizon, no not a war of missles and nukes, but a
truely new war is potnetially unfolding and thats government cyber
attacks by our own government and that of governments like russia who
have now publically announced their not too happy with the west right
now and that serious consequenes are likely for uk and its allies.
don't switch off your computers yet folks, things are only warming up,
but like i said before, you won't be able to switch on BBC News and
CNN like you do with real life mainland attacks and be excited or
alarmed by whats going on in cyber attacks, it will be a very boring
affair to overlook and will continue to be a boring type of warfare
for news outlets to report on and for the consumer to watch. that is
of course unless our own government and russia want to attack our way
of life by shutting down power stations and national train networks,
then we might just see something watchable on BBC News and CNN, but
for the most part, cyber attacks just aren't sexy enough for there to
be enough stimulant for us to keep our computers switched on and still
be interested in the cyber security scene, so people are still going
to continue to get bored with the security scene and switch off in
real numbers and stop ethical and malicious hacking, even though a new
dawn of third world war is about to get underway."

link: http://international-hacker-n3td3v.blogspot.com/2007/07/hackers-are-giving-up-hacking.html

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/
