
Date: Sat, 12 Apr 2008 19:49:49 -0700
From: "The Dark Tangent" <dtangent@...con.org>
To: <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: DEF CON 16 Retro Announcement! Back to Bang!

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA256

With the passing of "Sledgehammer" I was looking in the DEF CON archives for
An old picture of him at the first DEF CON, and came across the first con
announcement.

To commemorate both I decided to announce DEF CON 16 in the same style. How
'bout those InterNets?

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --
 
                D E F  C O N  16   C O N V E N T I O N
                D E F  C O N  16   C O N V E N T I O N
                D E F  C O N  16   C O N V E N T I O N
                D E F  C O N  16   C O N V E N T I O N

>> READ AND DISTRIBUTE AND READ AND DISTRIBUTE AND READ AND DISTRIBUTE 
>> <<

                        Announcement: 4/11/2008

           We are proud to announce the 16th annual Def Con.

If you are at all familiar with any of the previous Cons, then you will have
a good idea of what DEF CON will be like. If you don't have any experience
with Cons, they are an event on the order of a pilgrimage to Mecca for the
underground. They are a mind-blowing orgy of information exchange,
viewpoints, speeches, education, enlightenment... And most of all sheer,
unchecked PARTYING. It is an event that you must experience at least once in
your lifetime.

The partying aside, it is a wonderful opportunity to met some of the
luminaries of the underground computer scene and those that shape its
destiny - the researchers, hackers, libertarians, and info-rebels of various
kinds.

Most of all, there will be plenty of open-ended discussion on security,
networks, and other topics as well as what TIME magazine calls the
"Cyberpunk Movement".

Las Vegas is, as you might have guessed, a great choice for the Con.
Gambling, loads of hotels and facilities, cheap air fare and room rates.
It's also in the West Coast making it more available to a different crowd
than the former Cons have been.

Your foray into the scene and your life will be forever incomplete if by
Some chance you miss out on DEF CON 16. Plan to be there!


WHO:   You know who you are.
WHAT:  Super Hacker Party Fest, with Speakers, contests, even live music.
WHERE: Las Vegas, Nevada
WHEN:  August 8 - 10 (Fri, Sat, Sun) 2008
WHY:   To meet all the other people out there you've been talking to for
months and months, and get some solid information instead of rumors.

DESCRIPTION:

So you're bored, and have never gone to a convention?  You want to meet all
the other members of the so called 'computer underground'?  You've been
calling BBS systems for a long time now, and you definitely have been
interacting on the national networks.  You've bullshitted with the best, and
now it's time to meet them in Vegas!  For me I've been networking for years,
and now I'll get a chance to meet everyone in the flesh.  Get together with
a group of your friends and make the journey.

We cordially invite all hackers, phreaks, techno-rats, programmers, writers,
activists, lawyers, philosophers, politicians, security officials,
cyberpunks and all network sysops and users to attend.

DEF CON 16 will be over the weekend in the middle of down town Las Vegas at
the Riviera Hotel.  Why Las Vegas?  Las Vegas is the place to do it. Cheap
food, alcohol, lots of entertainment and, like us, it never sleeps. We will
have the entire convention meeting space, so no sharing with the 'norms'
this year.  Events and speakers will be there to provide distraction and
some actual information and experiences from this loosely knit community
from lock picking, robot wars, the Black & White ball to the mystery box
challenge and the premier Capture the Flag contest! See the site for an ever
growing list of happenings.

This is an initial announcement.  It is meant only to alert you to the time,
dates and location of the convention.  Future announcements will inform you
about specific speakers and events.

An information pack is off of the internet at https://www.defcon.org/ The
IP# is 216.231.40.180  Information updates will be posted there in the
future as well as updated speaker lists.

CALL FOR PAPERS OPEN!

SPEAKERS:  We want to solicit speakers from all aspects of the computer
underground and associated culture (Law, Media, Software Companies, Cracking
Groups, Hacking Groups, Magazine Editors, Etc.)  If you or anyone you know
of is interested in speaking on a self selected topic, please submit a CFP.

- From hacking your car, your brain, and CIA sculptures to hacking the vote,
Bluetooth, and DNS hacks. We group presentations by subject and come up with
topic areas, or "clusters" of interest. It worked out so well in the past we
are doing it again.

What are we looking for then, if we don't have tracks? Were looking for the
presentation that you've never seen before and have always wanted to see. We
are looking for the presentation that the attendees wouldn't ask for, but
blows their minds when they see it. We want strange demos of Personal GPS
jammers (Lady Ada?), RFID zappers, and HERF madness. Got a MITM attack
against cell phones or a way to duplicate fingerprints? (CCC?) We want to
see it!

GET INVOLVED: There are many contests and groups to get involved with. If
You don't know anyone don't phear, get involved. Join the forums, read up on
the contests, plan a party, do something!

FOR MORE INFORMATION:

For initial comments, requests for more information, information about
speaking at the event, or maps to the section where prostitution is legal
outside Las Vegas (Just Kidding) Contact The Dark Tangent by leaving me mail
at: dtangent@...con.org on the InterNet.

Future information updates will pertain to the speaking agenda.
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --
Web Site
https://www.defcon.org/

Submit a CFP
https://www.defcon.org/html/defcon-16/dc-16-cfp-form.html

Forums - Discuss and follow all the pre-conference planning
https://forum.defcon.org/

Future Announcements in RSS format
https://www.defcon.org/defconrss.xml

The original DEF CON 1 pic I was looking for..
https://www.defcon.org/images/graphics/PICTURES/defcar1.jpg


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGP Desktop 9.7.0 (Build 1012)
Charset: us-ascii

wsBVAwUBSAF1NQ6+AoIwjTCUAQjskAgAjVYLcnkTCgffx17F70NKbugGjs9fmar5
nrnu2FIJS+Lase2xWy+vs6TBGMVGwWQxHIRYgR1UFAQIbVu4OPXP/LNCrFZFLpf6
Nn6Y2qey5ZH+0vjv3h2g3fGi741vJvuayLJ5zd9DlAHItFMDechkS4zi54uesHdK
Mj0E3S768w+2VotNrw4q/ltgPE+J6Dyn99saOLMCT2kv0uIkKqSWsgcYq31Fcg/d
ixCmRHsRCTyDbG1H7c26Ufc5yiuLjPPuFoIghpdYvgmuchXI5fXw2MlmfBklQ6KC
82Dm5CnNbrSaM6U3sHHrhob76WZF7KCtnPwsoGgZAnfFc1qMw4jmnw==
=mbFY
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
