
Date: Thu, 26 Apr 2007 00:06:44 +0200
From: Stefano Zanero <zanero@...t.polimi.it>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: CFP: 3rd European Conference on Computer Network Defense (EC2ND)

Thanks in advance for sharing this CFP with any interested individual or
mailing list.

----
3rd European Conference on Computer Network Defense (EC2ND)
4-5 October 2007, FORTH-ICS, Heraklion, Crete, Greece
http://2007.ec2nd.org/

Call for Papers

The 3rd European Conference on Computer Network Defense
will take place in October 2007 at the Foundation for
Research and Technology Hellas, in Crete, Greece.

The theme of the conference is the protection of computer networks. The
conference will draw participants from academia and industry in Europe
and beyond to discuss hot topics in applied network and systems security.

EC2ND invites submissions presenting novel ideas at an early stage with
the intention to act as a discussion forum and feedback channel for
promising, innovative security research. While our goal is to solicit
ideas that are not completely worked out, and might have challenging and
interesting open questions, we expect submissions to be supported by
some evidence of feasibility or preliminary quantitative results.

Topics include but are not limited to:

    * Intrusion Detection
    * Denial-of-Service
    * Privacy Protection
    * Security Policy
    * Peer-to-Peer and Grid Security
    * Network Monitoring
    * Web Security
    * Vulnerability Management and Tracking
    * Network Forensics
    * Wireless and Mobile Security
    * Cryptography
    * Network Discovery and Mapping
    * Incident Response and Management
    * Malicious Software
    * Web Services Security
    * Legal and Ethical Issues


Submitting a Paper
You are hereby invited to submit papers up to 6-8 single-spaced pages
long. We particularly encourage position papers on preliminary work that
shows promise, rather than mature and well-polished papers studying
well-known ideas. Surprising  results and thought-provoking ideas will
be strongly favored. All submissions will be reviewed by the Program
Committee. Accepted papers will be published in the electronic
proceedings of the conference. Some papers may have to go through a
shepherding process in collaboration with one of the PC members.

Important Dates

    * Submissions due:
      June 24, 2007
    * Notification:
      July 24, 2007
    * Final version due:
      August 10, 2007

Organizers

General chair: Vasilios A. Siris (FORTH) and Panos Trimintzios (ENISA)
PC co-chairs: Sotiris Ioanidis and Kostas Anagnostakis
Local Arrangements Chair: Vasilios A. Siris
Local Arrangements Committee: Yiannis Askoksylakis and Anna Doxastaki

Program Committee
Herbert Bos, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Eric Cronin, University of Pennsylvania, USA
George Danezis, KU Leuven, Belgium
Austin Donnelly, Microsoft Research, UK
Stefanos Gritzalis, University of the Aegean, Greece
Mehis Hakkaja, ENISA, EU
Bjorn Knutsson, KTH, Sweden
Christopher Kruegel, TU Wien, Austria
Tieyan Li, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore
Javier Lopez, Universidad de Malaga, Spain
Ulrike Meyer, Nokia Siemens Networks GmbH & Co., Germany
Stefan Miltchev, Microsoft, USA
Philippe Owezarski, LAAS-CNRS, France
Michalis Polychronakis, University of Crete and FORTH-ICS, Greece
George C. Polyzos, AUEB/MMlab, Greece
Carlos Ribeiro, Universidade Tecnica de Lisboa, Portugal
Pierangela Samarati, Universita di Milano, Italy
Diomidis Spinellis, Athens University of Economics and Business, Greece
Theodore Tryfonas, University of Glamorgan, UK
Sven Ubik, CESNET, Czech Republic
Stefano Zanero, Politecnico di Milano, Italy

Steering Committee
Panagiotis Trimintzios, ENISA
Evangelos Markatos, FORTH-ICS, Greece
Andrew Blyth, University of Glamorgan, UK

-- 
Cordiali saluti,
Stefano Zanero

Politecnico di Milano - Dip. Elettronica e Informazione
Via Ponzio, 34/5 I-20133 Milano - ITALY
Tel.    +39 02 2399-4010
Fax.    +39 02 2399-3411
E-mail: zanero@...t.polimi.it
Web:    www.elet.polimi.it/upload/zanero
