
Date: Thu, 11 Jan 2007 12:22:40 -0800
From: "Layer One" <layeronecfp@...il.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: LayerOne 2007 CFP Announced

LayerOne 2007 - Call for Papers
May 5-6, 2007
Los Angeles, California
At the Pasadena Hilton
http://layerone.info

What is LayerOne? Currently in its 4th year, LayerOne is computer
security and technology conference held in the Los Angeles area. The
purpose of LayerOne is to bring together the many different types of
folks who make up the security community for a 2 day discussion of the
technologies that impact our professional and personal lives.

Who should attend LayerOne? Just about anyone who is concerned with
computer, information, and Internet security and the issues arising
from it. Developers, System Administrators, Lawyers, IT managers,
Students, Hackers, Engineers, Privacy Advocates, Hardware Hackers,
Open Source fans, and garden variety Geeks will all find something of
interest at LayerOne. Previous speakers have included the likes of Dan
Kaminsky (Doxpara Research), Dave Hulton (Toorcon), Adam Laurie
(Trifinite/Bluetooth SIG), and Bruce Potter (Shmoo Group).

Call for Papers. LayerOne is now officially accepting papers and
presentations for consideration at our 2007 show. We are looking for
people to speak on a broad range of topics, so all submissions will be
considered. At the moment we're interested in hearing from potential
speakers with the following interests:

    * Identity Theft and Mitigation
    * Reverse Engineering
    * VoIP (security and development)
    * Internet, Privacy, and Law
    * Secure Coding Techniques
    * Network Security Evasion Techniques


Please note that we'd love to see as broad a range of topics this year
as we did last year, so don't consider this to be a strict guideline
on what we'd like people to be submitting. If you've got something
that you think will fit, by all means send it in. To see a list of
topics from 2006, please visit our website.

Please be sure to include the following information in your submission:

    * Presentation name
    * A one-sentence synopsis of your presentation
    * A longer one to three paragraph synopsis or short outline of
what you plan on covering
    * Names of and URLs to presenter(s)
    * A short (single-paragraph) biography of the presenter(s)


Once everything's ready to go, send your submission to cfp [at]
layerone [dot] info no later than March 31st, 2007. All papers
submitted by then will receive either an acceptance or rejection
notice no later than April 6th, 2007. Speaker selection is expected to
be finalized on this date.

Although we only have one speaking track, please bear in mind that
speaking slots are limited to one hour. How you use that time is
entirely up to you - but most people tend to divide it between
presentation and a Q&A session. If you think your presentation will
run longer please advise us when you turn in your proposal and we will
do our best take your needs into consideration.

If the presentation is based on code or a particular technique the
presenter must be one of the developers of the code/technique and be
prepared to perform a demonstration.

We look forward to reading over your submissions, which we are sure
will be outstanding. Once again, if you have any questions or
submissions please email cfp [at] layerone [dot] info. Thank you for
your interest, and we look forward to seeing you there.
