
Date: Fri, 02 May 2008 15:26:26 -0400
From: Josh Bressers <bressers@...hat.com>
To: oss-security@...ts.openwall.com
Subject: Re: group announcement (was: list: members vs. read-only subscribers)

On 25 April 2008, Josh Bressers wrote:
> On 23 April 2008, Solar Designer wrote:
> > 
> > Josh - now that the list setup has been restricted like you wanted, are
> > you going to work on an announcement suitable for posting to Bugtraq?
> > 
> 
> Just so nobody thinks I missed this,
> 
> It's been a very busy week for me, so I've not started on this yet.  I'll
> try to draft something up this weekend or early next week.  I have some
> ideas.
> 

OK, sorry for the delay, there was a reason though.

I have a first draft writeup, that I'm sticking at the end of this message,
and I plan to run this past the Red Hat Corporate Communications people
(which is where the delay came from, they are busy people).  They have
offered to add this announcement (presuming it conforms to their standards)
to the Red Hat press blog, which is well read by various people in the
computing press world.  This should help get a lot more attention than just
sending this out to a few mailing lists.  I did however explain that
whatever goes on the press blog needs to be cleared with this group first,
and they completely understand.

So here is my plan.  If everyone could take a look at this writeup and add
comments, then around mid next week, I'll send our changes to the Red Hat
folks, then hopefully by weeks end we'll all be synced up, with something
ready to go the week after.

Thanks.

-------------------- snip ----------------------------

Security, Open Source Style
-----------------------------
Today we announce the Open Source Software Security community
(oss-security) an ongoing effort to manage security information in Open
Source software by building on the very collaborative foundation of the
Open Source model.

This community was initially founded by individuals from Foresight Linux,
Mandriva, Openwall, and Red Hat.  The community has since grown to include
contributions from many other projects and individuals.  The computing
resources are currently graciously donated by the Openwall Project.
<maybe some URLs here?>

The purpose of oss-security is to encourage public discussion of security
flaws, concepts, and practices in the Open Source community.  We don't want
to simply be an information clearinghouse, but to encourage active
participation of those interested in the ideas and practices behind keeping
modern software secure.  This includes activities such as flaw discovery,
understanding, reporting, and overall best practices.

If you have an interest in the Open Source security space, you are
encouraged to participate in the oss-security community by adding content
to the wiki, contributing to mailing list discussions, or joining us on IRC.

More information can be found on the group's wiki page here:
http://oss-security.openwall.org

Thanks You.
-------------------- snip ----------------------------


-- 
    JB
