
Date: Mon, 30 Oct 2006 14:53:08 -0300
From: "CORE FORCE Team" <force@...ce.coresecurity.com>
To: <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: CORE FORCE R0.95 released!

Greetings 

CoreLabs, the research arm of Core Security Technologies, is pleased to
announce a new release of CORE FORCE, a free software endpoint security
solution. 

Core FORCE, a fully functional endpoint protection software for Windows 2000
and Windows XP systems, is released under the Apache 2.0 license and is
available for download at http://force.coresecurity.com. 

CORE FORCE R0.95 b167 provides new features and updates based on user
feedback. Programs can now be moved across security profiles while they run.
Two new default security profiles have been added to run trusted and
untrusted programs in generic sandboxes.

This release of CORE FORCE includes the following new features:

 * New security profiles for Trusted Programs and Untrusted Programs. 
 * Support to change the security profile for programs while they are
running. 
 * New Run with security profile command to launch a program in a specific
security sandbox. 
 * Alert notifications have been overhauled to provide more accurate
information and options to the user.
 * Support for configuration of multiple executables in a program's security
profile. 
 * Firewall rules can now be configured for specific protocols other than
TCP, UDP & ICMP. 
 * Generic permissions can now be configured to initialize security levels'
permissions on a new program's security profile. 

These new features have been designed to work together in common scenarios:

 * If you want to install a new program and avoid restrictions for the
installer, you can launch it in the new Trusted Programs sandbox (or move it
to that security profile when it's running).
 * If you download a suspicious program from the web and want to check it
out, you can run it in the Untrusted Programs sandbox where it won't be able
to write or delete stuff in your computer and communicate with remote
computers without your knowledge.  

As in previous releases, we continue to improve CORE FORCE's stability and
compatibility based on feedback from beta users.

For more information about this new release, please go here:

http://force.coresecurity.com/index.php?module=articles&func=display&aid=30

- The CORE FORCE team @ CoreLabs 


*About CoreLabs* 


CoreLabs, the research center of Core Security Technologies located in
Buenos Aires, Argentina, is charged with anticipating the future needs and
requirements for information security technologies. CoreLabs, which is led
by Ariel Futoransky, prides itself on taking a holistic view of information
security with a focus on developing solutions to the complex, real-world
security problems that affect our customers today or will affect them
tomorrow. 


The solutions developed by CoreLabs leverage the collaborative expertise of
our world-class engineering and consulting teams. We conduct our research in
several important areas of information security including vulnerability
research, cyber attack planning and simulation, source code auditing,
endpoint security, web application security and cryptography. 


*About Core Security Technologies* 


Core Security Technologies develops strategic solutions that help
security-conscious organizations worldwide develop and maintain a proactive
process for securing their networks. The company's flagship product, CORE
IMPACT, is the first automated penetration testing product for assessing
specific information security threats to an organization. 
Penetration testing evaluates overall network security and identifies what
resources are exposed. It enables organizations to determine if current
security investments are detecting and preventing attacks. Core augments its
leading technology solution with world-class security consulting services,
including penetration testing, software security auditing and related
training. Headquartered in Boston, MA, Core 
Security Technologies can be reached at 617-399-6980 or on the Web at 
http://www.coresecurity.com.



