
Date: Wed, 5 Jul 2017 22:58:14 +0100
From: Simon McVittie <smcv@...ian.org>
To: oss-security@...ts.openwall.com
Subject: Re: systemd fails to parse user that should run
 service

On Wed, 05 Jul 2017 at 22:03:45 +0200, Pali Rohár wrote:
> The worst is that fact that discussion about this problem was locked in
> upstream bugtracker. Therefore there is no other option as continue
> discussion about this, which I think security issue, here at
> oss-security list.

systemd does have a (public, and publically-archived) mailing list, which
has a current thread on the subject of this issue.

In particular the mail in that thread from Felipe Sateler, and some of
the discussion on the upstream bug, touches on reasons why neither
"if anything is not as expected, reject the whole unit" nor the current
behaviour is right. I suspect the resolution is likely to be something
in between.

I agree that it's a bug that a "syntactically invalid" User is handled
the way it is, because the result does not follow the principle
of least astonishment, and it would be easy for it to have bad
consequences. (Please don't try to convince me that the current behaviour
is a bug. I already think that, and I have no more influence over
systemd's behaviour than you do.)

However, (the relevant part of) systemd is pid 1, executing commands
defined by system-wide-installed files, with the highest possible
privileges. It makes no claim to be designed to process untrusted units
safely, and it would be foolish for a component in its position to make
that claim. In a sense it's a specialized interpreter, for a language
that happens to be partly declarative rather than entirely imperative. If
someone you don't trust gives you a systemd system unit, it needs to be
checked just as carefully as a traditional (e.g. LSB) init script, because
it can do all the same powerful and dangerous operations that the init
script can (dangerous is just another word for powerful, and vice versa).

Not every bug is a security vulnerability (not even the really bad
ones). At the moment, there is a strong correlation between security
vulnerabilities with CVE IDs, and issues for which there is consensus
among relevant upstream and downstream developers that the issue is in
fact a vulnerability for which a prompt security update is necessary. I'm
becoming concerned that if the working definition of a vulnerability
gets stretched too far towards things that are "just a bug", it will
reduce the perceived importance of fixing CVEs promptly, harming the
overall level of security in software.

On Wed, 05 Jul 2017 at 13:27:17 -0700, Alan Coopersmith wrote:
> Honestly, given the level of flaming and trolling that happens on issues
> like this, locking the report is the only sane option I can see once
> everyone started piling on.   Forcing FOSS maintainers to accept infinite
> amounts of shitposting is a horrible way to reduce security by burning
> out all FOSS maintainers quickly and leaving software abandoned.

I have little to add to this, but I couldn't resist a "me too" here,
because I think Alan's point is very important. Maintainers can't be
expected to behave in a professional and effective way if their working
environment is consistently hostile.

Using something with as large a user-base as Github for bug tracking
makes it very easy for people to contribute their comments to bugs,
which is great as long as those comments are helpful (remembering that a
bug tracker is there to make the tracked software better, not to make its
users feel better). When the comments become unconstructive, maintainers
need to have the tools to manage them, and locking bug reports is one
of those tools.

    S
