
Date: Fri, 04 Apr 2008 14:40:26 -0400
From: iDefense Labs <labs-no-reply@...fense.com>
To: vulnwatch@...nwatch.org, full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk,
	bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: iDefense Security Advisory 04.03.08: Computer Associates Alert Notification
 Service Multiple RPC Buffer Overflow Vulnerabilities

iDefense Security Advisory 04.03.08
http://labs.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/
Apr 03, 2008

I. BACKGROUND

Computer Associates Alert Notification Server is used by several CA
products, including eTrust Integrated Threat Management, to provide
notifications to console users.

II. DESCRIPTION

Remote exploitation of multiple buffer overflow vulnerabilities in
Computer Associates International Inc.'s Alert Notification Service may
allow an authenticated attacker to execute arbitrary code with SYSTEM
privileges.

The Alert Service is a component of multiple Computer Associates'
products. It is used to provide status updates and notifications
regarding various system events. It implements an RPC interface with
GUID 3d742890-397c-11cf-9bf1-00805f88cb72.

Multiple buffer overflows exist in the handlers for various opcodes. In
each case, unsafe library functions are used to copy attacker supplied
data into fixed size stack buffers. By making specially crafted
requests, attackers are able to cause an exploitable buffer overflow.

III. ANALYSIS

Exploitation of these vulnerabilities allows an attacker to execute
arbitrary code with SYSTEM privileges. In order to exploit these
vulnerabilities, it is necessary for an attacker to have valid domain
credentials.

IV. DETECTION

iDefense confirmed the existence of these vulnerabilities with Computer
Associates' Threat Manager for the Enterprise version 8.1. Other
products that contain the Alert Notification Service are suspected to
be vulnerable as well.

V. WORKAROUND

iDefense is currently unaware of any effective workaround for these
issues.

VI. VENDOR RESPONSE

Computer Associates has addressed these issues by providing updates.
More information is available in their advisory at the following URL.

https://support.ca.com/irj/portal/anonymous/phpsupcontent?contentID=173103

VII. CVE INFORMATION

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project has assigned the
name CVE-2007-4620 to this issue. This is a candidate for inclusion in
the CVE list (http://cve.mitre.org/), which standardizes names for
security problems.

VIII. DISCLOSURE TIMELINE

08/24/2007  Initial vendor notification
08/24/2007  Initial vendor response
04/03/2008  Coordinated public disclosure

IX. CREDIT

The discoverer of these vulnerabilities wishes to remain anonymous.

Get paid for vulnerability research
http://labs.idefense.com/methodology/vulnerability/vcp.php

Free tools, research and upcoming events
http://labs.idefense.com/

X. LEGAL NOTICES

Copyright © 2008 iDefense, Inc.

Permission is granted for the redistribution of this alert
electronically. It may not be edited in any way without the express
written consent of iDefense. If you wish to reprint the whole or any
part of this alert in any other medium other than electronically,
please e-mail customerservice@...fense.com for permission.

Disclaimer: The information in the advisory is believed to be accurate
at the time of publishing based on currently available information. Use
of the information constitutes acceptance for use in an AS IS condition.
 There are no warranties with regard to this information. Neither the
author nor the publisher accepts any liability for any direct,
indirect, or consequential loss or damage arising from use of, or
reliance on, this information.

