
Date: Tue, 8 Dec 2009 13:42:52 -0600
From: ZDI Disclosures <zdi-disclosures@...pingpoint.com>
To: "'full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk'" <full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk>,
	"'bugtraq@...urityfocus.com'" <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: ZDI-09-090: Microsoft Windows Intel Indeo Codec Parsing Stack
 Overflow Vulnerability

ZDI-09-090: Microsoft Windows Intel Indeo Codec Parsing Stack Overflow Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-09-090
December 8, 2009

-- Affected Vendors:
Microsoft

-- Affected Products:
Microsoft Windows 2000 SP4
Microsoft Windows XP SP3
Microsoft Windows 2003 SP2

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Microsoft Windows Media Player. User
interaction is required to exploit this vulnerability in that the target
must visit a malicious page or open a malicious file.

The specific flaw exists within the Intel Indeo41 codec which is
accessed by various applications through the Video Compression Manager.
This codec is registered to handle IV41 streams within a container such
as the AVI format. While decompressing a video stream malicious data can
cause a loop to execute excessively and consequently corrupt the
application's stack. By providing specific values this can lead to an
exploitable condition which can be leveraged by attackers to execute
arbitrary code under the context of the user accessing the file.

-- Vendor Response:
Microsoft has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:

http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/advisory/954157.mspx

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2009-03-13 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2009-12-08 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by:
    * Anonymous

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is
used. TippingPoint does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any
exploit code. Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor,
TippingPoint provides its customers with zero day protection through
its intrusion prevention technology. Explicit details regarding the
specifics of the vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until
an official vendor patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the
altruistic aim of helping to secure a broader user base, TippingPoint
provides this vulnerability information confidentially to security
vendors (including competitors) who have a vulnerability protection or
mitigation product.

Our vulnerability disclosure policy is available online at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/disclosure_policy/