
Date: Wed, 22 Feb 2006 11:22:50 -0500
From: dave <fla.linux@...il.com>
To: Anthony.Cicalla@...kServ.com, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: RE: Vulnerabilites in new laws on computer hacking


You don't have 300 dollars for vmware so you break into others people 
systems to learn...That makes no since. If breaking into another persons 
computer doesn't seem wrong then applying a serial/crack found at 
astalavista.com or the bugs etc should not seem out of the question. 
Better to screw a programmer out of pay then violate someones privacy 
and/or potentialy damage a production system.

I would rather set up vmware using a cracked serial key to practice 
using exploits etc before risking jail. Although truth be told I would 
*guess* that some 80-90% of the people that work in the security field 
have *without permission* cracked someone elses box...That kind of 
thinking comes with the territory. In fact I think ANYONE who wants a 
job breaking into computers (pen testers) has to have a mischievous 
side...even if it is not p.c. to say it ;) I also agree with the fact 
that hackers/crackers look for jobs like that cause they then can get 
paid doing something they love to do. What is wrong with that? But let's 
not fool ourselves...you dont learn to enjoy cracking computers by 
sitting around thinking about it!

my 2.5 cents


-----Original Message-----
From: Anthony Cicalla [mailto:Anthony.Cicalla@...kServ.com]
Sent: 16 February 2006 5:32
To: 'self-destruction@...best.com'; bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: RE: Vulnerabilites in new laws on computer hacking

I would have to say that I agree with you in what you have said.  I am a
young security professional with a cissp, but growing up I did not have
the $ to be able to purchase vmware and all the software to setup a test
environment. I also bet that most of you between ages 12 - 16 had the
minimum 500.00 for a pc and another 300.00 for vmware and the list goes
on and on.  To learn computer / network security is expensive and the
materials are costly in a lot of situations. If we are going to make
stricter laws why do we not have something setup for more positive
learning.  Maybe a sponsored couple of sites to teach this and be legal
targets for script kiddies. Just some of my thoughts on the matter.
After saying this I don't support illegal activities but if we want the
kids to learn and not go to jail  for being curious then we as a
community need to look at this and provide a positive outlet for this
type of activity.
 


