
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2006 15:56:26 +0700
From: Jim Geovedi <jim@...vedi.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: BCS Asia 2006 - Call for Papers


Bellua Cyber Security Asia 2006 Call for Papers - http://www.bellua.net

For the second consecutive year, the Bellua Cyber Security Asia 2006  
Conference will bring together in Indonesia internationally  
recognized experts in the security community as well as leading  
members of the local Indonesian technology and security industry.

BCS Asia 2006 will bring together researchers and practitioners from  
Asia, Europe and the Americas to discuss present and future  
information security issues through an intensive series of  
workshopps, presentations, demonstrations and technical sessions. Do  
not submit product or vendor pitches please.

Important Dates:

28-29 August 2006: The Workshops
30-31 August 2006: The Conference
The meeting will take place in Jakarta, Indonesia, at the Jakarta  
Convention Center (see travel and visa information below.)

Please send your proposal to cfp2006@...lua.com as soon as possible  
and no later than 31 March 2006. This year, proposals will be  
evaluated in the order received; submit early to maximise your  
chances of being selected.

The program committee invites proposals for paper presentations,  
demonstrations and poster contributions on any topic relevant to  
cyber security and hacking including but not limited to:

Business Track

ISO27001 Information Security Management Systems (ISMS)
Business Processes & Security
Compliance Management
Handling Security failure & incidents
Banking Security
Telecommunication Security
Internet Fraud
Security Awareness
Social engineering
Privacy, anonymity, ethics
Cyber Law and Enforcement
Technical Track

0 day Hacking & Security
Penetration Testing
Telecom Security/Phreaking (SS7, GSM, 3G, GPRS, EDGE...)
Secure Programming
Reverse Engineering
Exploit development
Forensics
Wireless Security & Hacking (WiFi, Bluetooth, vsat...)
Web Application Security
Database Security
Cryptography
Spyware/Malware/Worm/Virus
Physical Security
Your submission should include:

Name, title, address, email and phone number
Draft of the proposed presentation (in PDF, PowerPoint or Keynote  
format), proof of concept for tools and exploits, etc.
Short biography, qualification, occupation, achievement and  
affiliations (limit 150 words).
Summary or abstract for your presentation (limit 150 words)
Time (40-60 minutes). Include time for discussion and questions
Technical requirements (video, internet, wireless, audio, etc.)
Each non-resident speaker will receive accommodation for 3 nights at  
the Jakarta Hilton International.
For each non-resident speaker, Bellua will cover travel expenses up  
to USD1000.
N.B. If an official sponsor employs you or you only propose a poster  
contribution, you will not receive any compensation for travel, hotel  
accommodations or an honorarium from Bellua.

Poster sessions are an integral part of Bellua Cyber Security events.  
Far from being a second option, posters provide an excellent way to  
present research work in a clear, concise format. A well-thought out  
poster can be better than an oral presentation in describing complex  
research work. Posters contributors will receive one complimentary  
conference pass.

Call for Workshops

Please send your proposal to cfp2006@...lua.com as soon as possible  
and no later than 31 March 2006.

This is also a call for workshops. One of the objectives of this  
meeting is to allow researchers to gain a background in areas that  
they may know little about. Towards that end a number of Workshops  
are planned.

Some participants in the workshop will be very excited in learning  
about technical matters such as hacking, exploit writing, penetration  
testing, social engineering, BCP, DRC or other important attack and  
defense techniques. Others might enjoy a seminar on a philosophical  
topic.

Workshop presenters are expected not to present just only their own  
material, but to give a broader overview and encourage discussion and  
debate.

The workshops will be held from 28th to 29th August.

Workshops that do not achieve the minimum enrollment will not be  
offered. The size of workshop will vary from 8 to a maximum of 25  
people.

Please send the workshop proposal along with the following to  
cfp2006@...lua.com as soon as possible and no later than 31 March 2006.

Address, affiliation, email and phone number
Draft timetable for the proposed workshop with title
Summary or abstract of the workshop, limit 250 words.
Biography (150 words)
Curriculum vitae - Resume
Technical requirements
Please send your proposal to cfp2006@...lua.com as soon as possible  
and no later than 23 December 2004.

Program Committee

   Anthony Zboralski, Bellua Asia Pacific
   Dhillon Andrew Kannabhiran, HackInTheBox
   Fetri Miftach, Bellua Asia Pacific
   John Grygorcewicz, Bispro Consulting
   John Howie, Microsoft Security Community
   Emmanuel Gadaix, Telecom Security Task Force
   Philippe Langlois, Telecom Security Task Force
   Ralph Logan, The Logan Group, The Honey Net Project
   David Maynor, ISS X-Force
   Thomas Wana, Void
   Jim Geovedi, Bellua Asia Pacific
   Andi, Void
   Skyper, Phrack Magazine
   Mark Dowd
   Matt Conover, Symantec
   Andrew R. Reiter
   Josha Broson, AngryPacket Security
   Nicolas Fischbach, Colt Telecom
   Fyodor Yarochkin
Visa Information

The Department of Justice and Human Rights has officially determined  
that as of 1 February 2004:

The Free Visa Facility (length of stay max. 30 days) will be issued  
to citizens of the following countries: Brunei, Malaysia,  
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam, Hong Kong, Macao, Morocco,  
Chile, Peru.
The Visa-on-Arrival Facility (length of stay max. 30 days) will be  
issued to citizens of the following countries: Australia, Argentina,  
Brazil, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy,  
Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, South Africa, South Korea,  
Switzerland, Taiwan, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates, United  
States.
Citizens of countries not stated above are required to apply for a  
visa at the Indonesian Embassy/Consulate in their country of domicile.
For questions regarding event registration, please call +62 570 5800  
(Astri).

For general event questions, please email bcs2006@...lua.com.

PT Bellua Asia Pacific - Bellua Cyber Security Conferences & Workshops




