
Date: Fri,  5 Mar 2010 17:43:36 +0100 (CET)
From: Konrad Rieck <konrad.rieck@...berlin.de>
To: Bugtraq Mailing List <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: Call for Papers: EC2ND 2010

Dear Colleagues,

Please find attached the Call for Papers for EC2ND 2010, 
the sixth European Conference on Computer Network Defense, 
which will be held in Berlin, Germany, October 28-29, 2010.

Please feel free to distribute this announcement. We apologize 
if you receive multiple copies of this message.

Best Regards,

The EC2ND 2010 Organization Committee


                        *  *  *  *  *  *

       6th European Conference on Computer Network Defense
                28-29 October 2010, Berlin, Germany
                      http://2010.ec2nd.org


Call for Papers

  The sixth European Conference on Computer Network Defense (EC2ND)
  will be held at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computer
  Science at Berlin Institute of Technology (TU Berlin). The
  conference brings together researchers from academia and industry
  within Europe and beyond to present and discuss current topics in
  applied network and systems security.

  EC2ND 2010 invites submissions presenting novel ideas in the areas
  of network defense, intrusion detection and systems security. Topics
  for submission include but are not limited to:

      * Intrusion Detection
      * Malicious Software
      * Web Security
      * Security Policy
      * Peer-to-Peer and Grid Security
      * Wireless and Mobile Security 
      * Network Forensics
      * Network Discovery and Mapping
      * Incident Response and Management
      * Privacy Protection
      * Cryptography
      * Legal and Ethical Issues 

  EC2ND 2010 specifically encourages submissions presenting work at an
  early stage with the intention to act as a discussion forum for
  innovative security research. While our goal is to solicit ideas
  that are not completely worked out, and might have challenging and
  interesting open questions, we expect submissions to be supported by
  some evidence of feasibility or preliminary quantitative results.

Paper Submission

  You are hereby invited to submit papers up to 6-8 pages, 8.5" x 11",
  two-column format. All submissions will be reviewed by the Program
  Committee. Authors of accepted papers will be given the option of
  including their paper in the proceedings of the conference,
  published through IEEE-CS (pending approval).

  Submissions must not substantially duplicate work that any of the
  authors has published elsewhere or has submitted in parallel to any
  other conference or workshop with proceedings. Authors of accepted 
  papers must ensure that their papers will be presented at the 
  conference.

  Details about the electronic submission procedure are provided on
  the conference Web site. Details of the process will be provided to
  the authors in time.

Important Dates

  Paper submission deadline:            July 2, 2010
  Paper acceptance or rejection:        August 6, 2010
  Final paper camera ready copy:        August 13, 2010
  Conference dates:                     October 28-29, 2010

Organization
 
  General co-chairs:
      Stefano Zanero (Politecnico di Milano, Italy)
      Konrad Rieck (Berlin Institute of Technology, Germany)
  Program chair:
      Konrad Rieck (Berlin Institute of Technology, Germany)
  Publicity chair:
      Thorsten Holz (Technical University of Vienna, Austria)

Program Committee

  Andrew Blyth (University of Glamorgan, UK)
  Paolo Milani Comparetti (Technical University of Vienna, Austria)
  Marco Cova (University of California, Santa Barbara, USA)
  Sven Dietrich (Stevens Institute of Technology, USA)
  Toralv Dirro (McAfee, Germany)
  Ulrich Flegel (SAP Research, Germany)
  Felix Freiling (University of Mannheim, Germany)
  Carrie Gates (CA Labs, USA)
  Thorsten Holz (Technical University of Vienna, Austria)
  Sotiris Ioannidis (FORTH-ICS, Greece)
  Martin Johns (SAP Research, Germany)
  Andrea Lanzi (Eurecom, France)
  Pavel Laskov (University of Tuebingen, Germany)
  Corrado Leita (Symantec Research Labs, France)
  Evangelos Markatos (FORTH-ICS and University of Crete, Greece)
  John McHugh (RedJack LLC and University of North Carolina, USA)
  Michael Meier (University of Dortmund, Germany)
  George Mohay (Queensland University of Technology, Australia)
  Klaus-Robert Mueller (Berlin Institute of Technology, Germany)
  Philippe Owezarski (LAAS-CNRS, France)
  Konrad Rieck (Berlin Institute of Technology, Germany)
  William Robertson (UC Berkley, USA)
  Robin Sommer (ICSI/LBNL, USA)
  Panagiotis Trimintzios (ENISA)
  Theo Tryfonas (University of Bristol, UK)
  Stefano Zanero (Politecnico di Milano, Italy)

Steering Committee

  Panagiotis Trimintzios (ENISA)
  Kostas Anagnostakis (Niometrics, Singapore)
  Andrew Blyth (University of Glamorgan, UK)
  Sotiris Ioannidis (FORTH-ICS, Greece)
  Evangelos Markatos (FORTH-ICS and University of Crete, Greece)

More Information 

  For further information, contact the conference chairs at 
  info (at) ec2nd (dot) org.

