
Date: Fri, 30 Jul 2010 11:03:59 -0400
From: <Security_Alert@....com>
To: <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Cc: <Security_Alert@....com>
Subject: ESA-2010-012: EMC Disk Library (EDL) Denial Of Service Vulnerability

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1


ESA-2010-012: EMC Disk Library (EDL) Denial Of Service Vulnerability

CVE Identifier: CVE-2010-2633 
EMC Identifier: ESA-2010-012 
Severity Rating: CVSS v2 Base Score: 7.1 (AV:N/AC:M/Au:N/C:N/I:N/A:C) 

Affected Software: 

EMC SW: EMC Disk Library (EDL) earlier than 3.2.7 
EMC SW: EMC Disk Library (EDL) 3.3.x 
EMC SW: EMC Disk Library (EDL) 4.0.x 

Vulnerability Summary: 

A vulnerability exists in EMC Disk Library (EDL) which can be 
exploited by an unauthenticated remote user to cause denial of 
service. 

Vulnerability Details: 

The vulnerability in EMC Disk Library (EDL) may allow a remote
unauthenticated user to send a specially-crafted message over TCP to
crash communication module causing denial of service condition on the 
appliance. As a result, the affected appliance would require a system 
reboot to clear the problem. The aforementioned denial of service 
condition should not result in data loss. 

Problem Resolution: 

The following EMC Disk Library (EDL) products contain resolutions to 
this issue:
* EMC Disk Library (EDL) 3.2.7 and later Service Packs
* EMC Disk Library (EDL) 3.3.2 and epatch 8, and later Service Packs
* EMC Disk Library (EDL) 4.0.1 and epatch 4, and later Service Packs


EMC strongly recommends all customers apply security patches, which 
contain the resolution to this issue, at the earliest opportunity. 
Contact your service provider for the software upgrade.

Read and utilize the information in this product alert to assist in
avoiding any situation that might arise from the problems described 
herein.
If you have any questions regarding this product alert, contact EMC
Software Technical Support at 1-877-534-2867. 

Also, refer to the release supplements for each product for 
information regarding the new Software packages, build information, 
and fixes that may be included in addition to the security 
vulnerability fix at Powerlink.
- - From the Powerlink home page menu bar, select Home > Support > 
Technical Documentation and Advisories > Hardware/Platforms 
Documentation > Disk Library > General Reference > Release notes. 

EMC Corporation distributes EMC Security Advisories in order to bring 
to the attention of users of the affected EMC products important 
security information. EMC recommends all users determine the 
applicability of this information to their individual situations and 
take appropriate action. The information set forth herein is provided 
"as is" without warranty of any kind. EMC disclaims all warranties, 
either express or implied, including the warranties of 
merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title and non-
infringement. In no event shall EMC or its suppliers be liable for any 
damages whatsoever including direct, indirect, incidental, 
consequential, loss of business profits or special damages, even if 
EMC or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such 
damages. Some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of 
liability for consequential or incidental damages so the foregoing 
limitation may not apply. 


EMC Product Security Response Center
Security_Alert@....com
www.emc.com/contact-us/contact/product-security-response-center.htm

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.9 (Cygwin)

iEYEARECAAYFAkxS6WAACgkQtjd2rKp+ALwXRACgv22nvbf/JlwVDZa3rkb3x04L
K+kAoLZSNUOKoY0mNQb41kShK4ulJ1mB
=RWNK
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

