
Date: Mon, 23 Jun 2003 23:45:02 -0700
From: Crispin Cowan <crispin@...unix.com>
To: secevents@...urityfocus.com,
	"BUGTRAQ@...URITYFOCUS.COM" <BUGTRAQ@...URITYFOCUS.COM>
Subject: CFP: Industrial Experience in Security


I'm on the program committee for this special track on Industrial 
Experience in security at the 2003 ACM Conference on Computer and 
Communications Security. This special session in an otherwise academic 
conference is an opportunity for security practitioners in industry to 
tell academics how it's really done: what works, and what doesn't. 
Submissions are only 3 pages long, and so should impose minimal burden 
on those submitting a paper. Panel proposals are also encouraged, where 
you propose a panel of experts to debate a contentious issue. Please 
consider submitting a paper or a panel proposal sharing your industrial 
experiences.

Papers are due June 27 (end of this week) and the conference is October 
28-29 in Washington DC.

Thanks,
    Crispin

-- 
Crispin Cowan, Ph.D.           http://immunix.com/~crispin/
Chief Scientist, Immunix       http://immunix.com
            http://www.immunix.com/shop/

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 Call for Papers -- Industry Experience Track
      Tenth ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS)
           October 28-29, 2003, Wyndham City Center, Washington, DC
                           Sponsored by ACM SIGSAC
                            www.acm.org/sigsac/ccs

This year, we introduce a new track aimed at promoting discussion on 
industry
efforts to implement security measures. The main topics of interest 
range from
industry experiences delivering security services, applications, and systems
to industry needs for new security technology. Also of interest is 
explanation
of the decisions that underlie technologies being actively employed in
industry. Disciplines of interest include those typical for CCS including:

Access control                  Authentication
Accounting and Audit            Database and system security
Security for mobile code        Applied Cryptography
Data/system integrity           Smart cards and secure PDAs
Cryptographic protocols         E-business/e-commerce
Intrusion detection             Inference/controlled disclosure
Key management                  Privacy and anonymity
Security management             Intellectual property protection
Information warfare             Secure networking
Security verification           Commercial and industry security

For this track, we solicit panel and presentation proposals. The accepted
proposals that comprise the track s program will be made accessible prior to
the conference. The track may also include some invited talk speakers.

Presentation Proposals: A presentation proposal should be a position 
paper, no
more than three (3) pages in length that describes the goals of the work and
progress to date sufficiently to motivate the corresponding presentation.

Panel Proposals: A panel proposal should be no longer than three (3) 
pages in
length, should include possible panelists, and should include an 
indication of
which panelists have confirmed participation.

Paper submissions will be electronic only and web-based. Submission
instructions will be posted in a timely manner at the web site
www.acm.org/sigsac/ccs. Only pdf or postscript files will be accepted. No
Microsoft Word documents please. The Industry Experience Track Program
Committee (see below) will review and select proposals for presentation.

General Chair Sushil Jajodia
Program Chair (Industry Experience) Trent Jaeger
Proceedings Chair Peng Liu
Publicity Chair Gail-Joon Ahn
Treasurer Charles Youman
Tutorials Chair Yvo Desmedt

Important Dates Papers due June 27, 2003 Decisions due August 22, 2003 
Revised
proposals due October 3, 2003

Please visit www.acm.org/sigsac/ccs for additional and up-to-date 
information,
including information on workshops held in conjunction with CCS.

Steering Committee R. Sandhu (Chair), R. Ganesan, S. Jajodia, P. Samarati

Industry Experience Program Committee:
Carlisle Adams, Entrust         Benny Pinkas, HP Labs
Selim Aissi, Intel Research     Makan Pourzandi, Ericsson
Crispin Cowan, Immunix          Ravi Sandhu, NSD Security
David Ferraiolo, NIST           Leendert van Doorn, IBM Research
Brian LaMacchia, Microsoft      Michael Waidner, IBM Research
Patrick McDaniel, AT&T Labs



