
Date: Wed, 28 Aug 2013 22:23:52 +0200
From: fukami <lists@....io>
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com,
  dailydave@...ts.immunitysec.com, websecurity@...appsec.org
Subject: 30C3 Call for Participation

30C3 – 30th Chaos Communication Congress
December 27th–30th 2013, CCH, Hamburg

30C3 is the 2013 edition of the Chaos Communication Congress, the
Chaos Computer Club’s international conference and hacker party.

During the four days between Christmas and New Year’s Eve, thousands
of technology enthusiasts, tinkerers, artists, utopians and <foo> from
Europe and all over the world come together at the Congress Center
Hamburg (CCH) to exchange ideas, learn and party together.
Participants engage with topics covering information technology,
computer security, the make-and-break scene, critically constructive
ways of dealing with technology and its effects on our societies.

The lecture programme review and selection process will be put on a
new basis this year. Submitted talk proposals will be selected by
content teams in charge of one of the following tracks:
- Art & Beauty
- Ethics, Society & Politics
- Crafting & Making
- Security & Safety
- Science & Engineering.


Tracks
======

Art & Beauty
------------
Computers can be used to create art and beauty. This track is for all
those lectures and installations dealing with creative approaches to
culture, music and art.

Crafting & Making
-----------------
This track is about all those tools designed to turn the digital into
the physical. We are looking forward to any submissions by those who,
when they speak of cloud hacking, actually mean making it rain, who
see e-bikes as a transport layer, and who happily forward viruses from
their inbox to their DNA sequencer.

Ethics, Society & Politics
--------------------------
This track is about ethics, society and politics in the digital age.
This includes submissions dealing with the dangers of technology in
politics and society as well as the threats that politics pose for the
digital society. At the same time, aside from fear and danger, we are
interested in examples of happiness and hope for a better world
through the interaction of  technology and politics.

Science & Engineering
---------------------
This track is for all those who don’t think Knuth was a cute polar
bear at the Berlin zoo. Submissions containing exoskeletons and
“bleeding edge” research – anything cool that comes out of
universities – as well as DIY experiments that aren’t about typical
making belong in this track. You’ve solved the halting problem?
Submit!

Security & Safety
-----------------
This track gathers people and groups who wish to describe or discuss
technical computer related safety and security. We are interested in
everything suitable to develop or bypass security mechanisms. This is
not limited to software systems,  this year the committee is
especially interested in hardware topics. Technical weaknesses, tools,
techniques and allied research all belong in this track.

Assemblies
----------
Assemblies are  places where communities of interest can meet in the
core of the congress. They are comparable to villages at the various
hacker camps. We will have lots of space again, so larger
installations will be possible. The assemblies will be organized in
the public Wiki.


Self-understanding of the 30C3
==============================
The CCC runs the congress with the help of self-organized volunteer
teams and on its own funds. We are proud of this and we are looking
forward to once again being able to put together a congress with no
external influences and no need for self-censorship. We regard this
event as one of the few places where a global exchange using the
creative-critical approach to technology and society is possible
without censorship.
We are not providing a stage to secret services or other state
organisations. However, based on our concept and on the fact that work
is done on a voluntary basis, a thorough advance screening of
participants and speakers is not possible.
It goes without saying that everyone attending the conference should
be treated with respect and consideration. A significant proportion of
delegates and speakers value their privacy, the integrity of their own
data and their photographic likenesses. Those who attach less
importance to personal agency in these matters are in a stronger
position. We therefore ask them to respect the feelings and wishes of
others.


Submission Guidelines
=====================

For talks and workshops
-----------------------
Please send us a description of your suggested talk that is as
complete as possible. The description is of particularly importance to
the selection, so please ensure it is as clear as possible. Quality
takes precedence over quantity. Due to the non-commerical nature of
the Congress, presentations which aim to market or promote commerical
products or entities will not be entertained.

As it  is likely that  that there will be multiple submissions about
the same topic, please show us exactly why your talk should be part of
the conference. Please write something about yourself, your
environment and your motivation. It does not matter if the talk has
been held at another conference, All it has to be is up to date.

Talks should be no longer than 45 minutes plus 15 minutes for question
and answers. Longer slots are possible in principle. There are
20-minute slots as well. Please tell us the proposed length of your
talk at the time of submission. In addition, there are 5-minute short
talks (so-called Lightning Talks) for small ideas, projects or rants.
These will only be organised during the event.

For projects, installations and other fun things
------------------------------------------------
A formal submission is not required. Once again there willl be a Wiki
where needs for space and other resources will be collected. Simply
start considering now what you would like to make, bring or show,
before that Wiki goes online. We have a lot of space and we are open
for crazy and surprising stuff.

Language of the presentation
----------------------------
Although 30C3 is an international conference and a lot of content is
being presented in English, this year there will again be a
translation team which will simultaneously translate most German talks
into English. So if you are not completely comfortable with presenting
in English, please feel free to present your lecture in German. Please
also use the language of your presentation for its title, so as not to
confuse any visitors.

Publication
-----------
Audio and video recordings of the lectures will be published online in
various formats under the license CC Attribution 3.0 Germany (CC BY
3.0 DE). This license allows commercial use of excerpts by media
institutions as part of their reporting. If you do not wish material
of your lecture to be published or streamed, please let us know in
your submission. Note: As German law and therefore the license might
differ from the law of your country please let us know if you should
have any issues or questions regarding the exact implications.
Unfortunately we can’t provide a bullet-proof translation.

Travel, costs & visa
--------------------
Chaos Communication Congress is a non-commercial event, where neither
the organisers nor the speakers are being paid. If necessary, we are
however able to provide some support regarding travel costs and
accomodation.

If you need help applying for a visa,  such as an official invitation
to present at the German embassy, please let the content team know
well in advance. Please be aware that the visa application procedure
may take up to six weeks.

Dates & deadlines
-----------------
- September 15, 2013 (23:59 UTC): Deadline for submissions
- November 15, 2013: Notification of acceptance
- December 27–30, 2013: Chaos Communication Congress

Online submissions only
-----------------------
All submissions of lectures and workshops have to be entered into our
conference planning system, which is located at the following URL:
https://frab.cccv.de/cfp/30C3.

Please follow the instructions there. If you have any questions
regarding the submission, you are welcome to contact us via email at
30c3-content(at)cccv.de.
