
Date: Thu, 24 Jun 2004 09:06:33 -0600
From: "Boren, Rich (SSRT)" <rich.boren@...com>
To: <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: [security bulletin] SSRT4741 rev.0 DCE for HP Tru64 UNIX Potential RPC Buffer Overrun Attack



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

 HP SECURITY BULLETIN

 HPSBTU01051     REVISION: 0

 SSRT4741 rev.0 DCE for HP Tru64 UNIX Potential
 RPC Buffer Overrun Attack
 --------------------------------------------------------------

 NOTICE:
 There are no restrictions for distribution of this Bulletin
 provided that it remains complete and intact.
 The information in this Security bulletin should be acted upon
 as soon as possible.

 INITIAL RELEASE:    21 June 2004

 POTENTIAL SECURITY IMPACT: Buffer overflow denial of service
 (DoS)

SOURCE:    HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
           HP Software Security Response Team


REFERENCES: VU#259796, VU#568148, VU#326746, VU#377804


VULNERABILITY SUMMARY:
A problem has been detected where an exploit program sends
invalid packet data which causes a buffer overflow in DCE
servers and could create a denial of service.

SUPPORTED SOFTWARE VERSIONS*:  ONLY impacted versions are listed.
All versions of DCE/DFS for Tru64 UNIX are vulnerable v4.1.4
(ifspec), v4.1.5, v4.2 and v4.3


BACKGROUND:
A problem has been detected where an exploit program sends
invalid packet data which causes a buffer overflow in DCE
servers. After numerous attacks, the server will not respond
to normal DCE requests. This buffer overflow may also affect
DCE clients: If DCE clients have any open associations to a
server, the overrun attack could hit that association and also
cause it to overflow.

As of December 31, 2003, remedial support for DCE has been
transferred to Entegrity Solutions for all HP Tru64 DCE/DFS
products. See the Entegrity Solutions support
http://support.entegrity.com  for details.

For a listing of all HP Tru64 UNIX security patch kits please
visit the following web site:
http://h30097.www3.hp.com/unix/security-download.html 


RESOLUTION:
 Visit the Entegrity Solutions support site for details on
 obtaining the security patches:
 http://support.entegrity.com

 NOTE: If you are using a version of HP Tru64 DCE/DFS not
 mentioned, contact Entegrity Technical Support.
 support@...egrity.com

 o Follow the instructions to download the software.

 o Install the software (follow the instructions in the
 Installation and Configuration Guide included in the
 documentation download and posted on the online
 Documentation Library).


SUPPORT: For further information, contact HP Services support
channel.

SUBSCRIBE: To initiate a subscription to receive future HP
Security Bulletins via Email:
http://h30046.www3.hp.com/driverAlertProfile.php?regioncode=NA&lang
code=USENG&jumpid=in_SC-GEN__driverITRC&topiccode=ITRC 
On the web page: Driver and Support Alerts/Notifications Sign-up:
Product Selection
Under Step1: your products
1. Select product category: - a minimum of servers must be
selected.
2. Select product family or search: - a minimum of
one product must be selected.
3. Add a product: - a minimum of one product must be added.
In Step 2: your operating system(s) - check ALL operating
systems for which alerts are required.
4. Complete the form and Save.

To update an existing subscription:
http://h30046.www3.hp.com/subSignIn.php
Log in on the web page Subscriber's choice for Business: sign-in.
On the Web page: Subscriber's Choice: your profile summary -
use Edit Profile to update appropriate sections.

Note: In addition to the individual alerts/notifications for the
selected operating systems/products, subscribers will
automatically receive one copy of alerts for non-operating
system categories (i.e., a subscriber who signs up for all
six operating system alerts will only receive one copy of
all the non-operating system alerts).

To review previously published Security Bulletins visit:
http://itrc.hp.com/cki/bin/doc.pl/screen=ckiSecurityBulletin 


REPORT: To report a potential security vulnerability with any HP
supported product, send Email to: security-alert@...com. It is
strongly recommended that security related information being
communicated to HP be encrypted using PGP, especially
exploit information.  To obtain the security-alert PGP key
please send an e-mail message to security-alert@...com
with the Subject of 'get key' (no quotes). 

System management and security procedures must be reviewed
frequently to maintain system integrity. HP is continually
reviewing and enhancing the security features of software
products to provide customers with current secure solutions.

"HP is broadly distributing this Security Bulletin in order to
bring to the attention of users of the affected HP products
the important security information contained in this Bulletin.
HP recommends that all users determine the applicability of
this information to their individual situations and take
appropriate action. HP does not warrant that
this information is necessarily accurate or complete for all user
situations and, consequently, HP will not be responsible for any
damages resulting from user's use or disregard of the information
provided in this Bulletin. To the extent permitted by law, HP
disclaims all warranties, either express or implied, including the
warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular
purpose, title and non-infringement."

(c) Copyright 2004 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
Hewlett-Packard Company shall not be liable for technical or
editorial errors or omissions contained herein. The information
provided is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind. To
the extent permitted by law, neither HP or its affiliates,
subcontractors or suppliers will be liable for incidental,
special or consequential damages including downtime
cost; lost profits; damages relating to the procurement
of substitute products or services; or damages
for loss of data, or software restoration. The information in this
document is subject to change without notice. Hewlett-Packard
Company and the names of Hewlett-Packard products referenced
herein are trademarks of Hewlett-Packard Company in the
United States and other countries. Other product and company
names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their respective
owners.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGP 8.0.2

iQA/AwUBQNro/uAfOvwtKn1ZEQJdywCgrwhxv+qvyUGopUEYCtz44ycy2cEAnjn7
08fGhJf54VZB8jImZOJCLW1l
=4Kpj
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----


