
Date: Sat, 5 Apr 2014 06:38:08 +0100
From: education@...wnjournal.org
To: undisclosed-recipients: ;
Subject: Call for Papers

CROWN RESEARCH IN  EDUCATION
http://www.crownjournal.org/


ISSN 2276-7436


Dear colleague


Crown Scientific Research in Education (CSRE) is an open access journal
that provides information, education, and publications to stimulate your
scholarly interests and services that contribute to your professional
development. All manuscripts are peer-reviewed and published monthly.

One key request of researchers across the world is unrestricted access to
research publications. Open access journals are scholarly journals that
are available online to the reader "without financial, legal, or technical
barriers other than those inseparable from gaining access to the internet
itself. It also enhances indexing, retrieval power and eliminates the need
for permissions to reproduce and distribute content. CSRE is fully
committed to the Open Access Initiative and will provide free access to
all articles as soon as they are published.

Call for Papers

Crown Scientific Research in Education (CSRE) is calling on authors to
submit their manuscript for publication in our unique journal.

There are three types of paper

Regular articles: These should describe new and carefully confirmed
findings, and experimental procedures should be given in sufficient detail
for others to verify the work. The length of a full paper should be the
minimum required to describe and interpret the work clearly.

Short Communications: A Short Communication is suitable for recording the
results of complete small investigations or giving details of new models
or hypotheses, innovative methods, techniques or apparatus. The style of
main sections need not conform to that of full-length papers. Short
communications are 2 to 4 printed pages (about 6 to 12 manuscript pages)
in length.

Review: Submissions of reviews and perspectives covering topics of current
interest are welcome and encouraged. Reviews should be concise and no
longer than 4-6 printed pages (about 12 to 18 manuscript pages). Reviews
are also peer-reviewed.

Manuscripts should be submitted to education@...wnjournal.org  or
cre.crownjournals@...il.com  for publication.  Authors will be notified
whether or not their manuscript has been accepted by our editors for
publication within 1 WEEK. Manuscripts will be published immediately
after acceptance in the next issue.


Best regards

Maxwell E

Editorial assistant
Crown Research in Education




