
Date: Thu, 20 May 2004 04:34:56 -0600
From: "Boren, Rich (SSRT)" <rich.boren@...com>
To: <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: [security bulletin]  SSRT4696 rev. 0  HP ProCurve Routing Switches TCP Denial of Service (DoS)



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

HP SECURITY BULLETIN


HPSBGN01041     REVISION: 0

SSRT4696 rev.0 HP ProCurve Routing Switches TCP
               Denial of Service (DoS)


 -----------------------------------------------------------------
NOTICE:
 There are no restrictions for distribution of this Bulletin
 provided that it remains complete and intact.

 The information in this Security bulletin should be acted upon
 as soon as possible.

INITIAL RELEASE:    18 May 2004



POTENTIAL SECURITY IMPACT:    Denial of Service (DoS)

SOURCE:    HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
HP Software Security Response Team

REFERENCES:    NISCC 236929, CAN-2004-0230, TA04-111A

VULNERABILITY SUMMARY:
A potential security vulnerability has been identified with HP
ProCurve Routing Switches running TCP where the vulnerability
could be exploited remotely to create a Denial of Service (DoS).

SUPPORTED SOFTWARE VERSIONS*:  ONLY impacted versions are listed.
HP ProCurve Routing Switch 9315M, 9308M, and 9304M and all managed
HP EtherTwist, HP AdvanceStack and HP ProCurve devices.

BACKGROUND:
This information is applicable for the following security
vulnerability alerts:

NISCC Vulnerability Advisory 236929 - Vulnerability Issues in TCP

US-CERT Technical Cyber Security Alert TA04-111A Vulnerabilities
in TCP

CVE name CAN-2004-0230

The industry standard TCP specification (RFC793) has a
vulnerability whereby established TCP connections can be reset by
an attacker.  The TCP stack that is part of the software used in
managed HP EtherTwist, HP AdvanceStack and HP ProCurve devices is
in conformance with this specification, and therefore contains
this potential vulnerability.  The TCP connections that are
affected due to this situation are only those terminating on
these devices, not those passing through these devices.

HP ProCurve Routing Switch 9315M, 9308M, and 9304M which have BGP
functionality can experience a Denial of Service, the duration of
which would be the time needed by the device to rebuild routing
tables.

TCP sessions, including Telnet, SSH, SFTP and HTTP on all managed
HP EtherTwist, HP AdvanceStack and HP ProCurve devices may be
disconnected without warning. TCP sessions that have been
disconnected can be re-established.

RESOLUTION:
For the HP ProCurve Routing Switch 9315M, 9308M, and 9304M, the
BGP technology can be protected by using the MD5 hash protection
feature.  HP recommends that our BGP customers implement MD5
protection as soon as possible to protect their connections
against this type of attack.

Other managed HP EtherTwist, HP AdvanceStack and HP ProCurve
devices are generally not impacted as TCP sessions that were
disconnected can be re-established.

As a good practice, HP recommends the appropriate inactivity
timeout feature on the device for each type of TCP session be
implemented. TCP sessions include Telnet, SSH, SFTP and HTTP.



* The software product category that this Security Bulletin
 relates to is represented by the 5th and 6th characters of the
 Bulletin number: GN=General, MA=Management Agents, MI=Misc.
 3rd party, MP=HP-MPE/iX, NS=HP NonStop Servers, OV=HP OpenVMS,
 PI=HP Printing & Imaging, ST=HP Storage, TU=HP Tru64 UNIX,
 TL=Trusted Linux, UX=HP-UX, VV=Virtual Vault


SUPPORT: For further information, contact HP Services support
         channel.

SUBSCRIBE: To initiate a subscription to receive future HP
Security Bulletins via Email:
http://h30046.www3.hp.com/driverAlertProfile.php?regioncode
=NA&langcode=USENG&jumpid=in_SC-GEN__driverITRC&topiccode=ITRC
On the web page:
Driver and Support Alerts/Notifications Sign-up: Product Selection
Under Step1: your products
1. Select product category:
   - a minimum of servers must be selected.
2. Select product family or search:
   - a minimum of one product must be selected.
3. Add a product:
   - a minimum of one product must be added.
In Step 2: your operating system(s)
   - check ALL operating systems for which alerts are required.
Complete the form and Save.

To update an existing subscription:
http://h30046.www3.hp.com/subSignIn.php
Log in on the web page Subscriber's choice for Business: sign-in.
On the Web page: Subscriber's Choice: your profile summary
- - use Edit Profile to update appropriate sections.

Note: In addition to the individual alerts/notifications for the
selected operating systems/products, subscribers will
automatically receive one copy of alerts for non-operating system
categories (i.e., a subscriber who signs up for all six operating
system alerts will only receive one copy of all the non-operating
system alerts).

REPORT: To report a potential security vulnerability with any HP
supported product, send Email to: security-alert@...com. It is
strongly recommended that security related information being
communicated to HP be encrypted using PGP, especially exploit
information. To obtain the security-alert PGP key please send an
e-mail message to security-alert@...com with the Subject of
'get key' (no quotes).

System management and security procedures must be reviewed
frequently to maintain system integrity. HP is continually
reviewing and enhancing the security features of software products
to provide customers with current secure solutions.

"HP is broadly distributing this Security Bulletin in order to
bring to the attention of users of the affected HP products the
important security information contained in this Bulletin. HP
recommends that all users determine the applicability of this
information to their individual situations and take appropriate
action. HP does not warrant that this information is necessarily
accurate or complete for all user situations and, consequently,
HP will not be responsible for any damages resulting from user's
use or disregard of the information provided in this Bulletin.
To the extent permitted by law, HP disclaims all warranties,
either express or implied, including the warranties of
merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, title
and non-infringement."


(c)Copyright 2004 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
Hewlett-Packard Company shall not be liable for technical or
editorial errors or omissions contained herein. The information
provided is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind. To the
extent permitted by law, neither HP or its affiliates,
subcontractors or suppliers will be liable for incidental, special
or consequential damages including downtime cost; lost profits;
damages relating to the procurement of substitute products or
services; or damages for loss of data, or software restoration.
The information in this document is subject to change without
notice. Hewlett-Packard Company and the names of Hewlett-Packard
products referenced herein are trademarks of Hewlett-Packard
Company in the United States and other countries. Other product
and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their
respective owners.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGP 8.0.2

iQA/AwUBQKtLx+AfOvwtKn1ZEQKCnQCfVokZU2/+pY0XmNt4ynDRIn708scAnAml
llwFY8yMjNMRwrG555dj48k/
=kxla
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----


