
Date: Mon, 10 Dec 2007 16:50:19 -0600
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-072: Novell Netmail AntiVirus Agent Multiple Overflow
 Vulnerabilities

ZDI-07-072: Novell NetMail AntiVirus Agent Multiple Heap Overflow 
Vulnerabilities
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-072.html
December 10, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-6302

-- Affected Vendor:
Novell

-- Affected Products:
NetMail 3.5.2

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability by Digital Vaccine protection filter ID 5219, 5225. 
For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
These vulnerabilities allow attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Novell NetMail. User interaction is not
required to exploit this vulnerability.

The specific flaws exist in the AntiVirus agent which listens on a
random high TCP port. The avirus.exe service protocol reads a
user-supplied ASCII integer value as an argument to a memory allocation
routine. The specified size is added to without any integer overflow
checks and can therefore result in an under allocation. A subsequent
memory copy operation can then corrupt the heap and eventually result
in arbitrary code execution.

-- Vendor Response:
Novell has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More details
can be found at:

https://secure-support.novell.com/KanisaPlatform/Publishing/990/3639135_f.SAL_Public.html

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2007.02.16 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.12.10 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by Tenable Network Security.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, The Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) represents 
a best-of-breed model for rewarding security researchers for responsibly
disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
