
Date: Wed, 30 Sep 2015 12:46:58 +0000
From: "Popovici, Alejo \(LATCO - Buenos Aires\)" <apopovici@...OITTE.com>
To: "dev@...lab.com" <dev@...lab.com>,
  "bugtraq@...urityfocus.com" <bugtraq@...urityfocus.com>
Subject: RE: WinRAR SFX v5.21 - Remote Code Execution Vulnerability

Well it's true what you are saying,
But it's also true that anti-virus software is fully aware of the usual way of executing malicious code through SFX archives. This could be a way of bypassing the anti-virus software thus avoiding detection.
In my opinion it should be fixed.

Kind regards,

Alejo Popovici
Consultor | ERS | Cyber Risk Services
Deloitte & Co. S.A.
Pte. Gral.J.D.Perón 646, 7piso, C1038AAN, Buenos Aires Argentina
apopovici@...oitte.com | www.deloitte.com


-----Original Message-----
From: dev@...lab.com [mailto:dev@...lab.com] 
Sent: Wednesday, September 30, 2015 8:05 AM
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: Re: WinRAR SFX v5.21 - Remote Code Execution Vulnerability

I am WinRAR developer. We published the official comment on www.rarlab.com here:
http://rarlab.com/vuln_sfx_html.htm

This "vulnerability" is a non-issue. Why attempting to find some hackish esoteric way for a feature, which presents in SFX archives officially. Any SFX archive can run contained executable files, it is required for installers. Any SFX archive just like any exe file and any software installer is potentially dangerous for user computers and must be started only if received from a trustworthy source.

Self-extracting archives are .exe themselves, one of their basic functions is code execution for executables stored in archives. They also allow to run any kind of web downloaders, because it is needed for software installers. So that researcher discovered that self-extracting archives, which are exe themselves and designed to be able to run contained exe, can actually run exe. No surprise here and no new risks for users. All associated risks are already present in standard SFX functions and exe design.

 
Deloitte se refiere a una o más de las firmas miembros de Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, una compañía privada del Reino Unido limitada por garantía, y su red de firmas miembros, cada una como una entidad única e independiente y legalmente separada. Una descripción detallada de la estructura legal de Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited y sus firmas miembros puede verse en el sitio web http://www.deloitte.com/about.                           La información de este mail es confidencial y concierne únicamente a la persona a quien está dirigida. Si este mensaje no está dirigido a usted, por favor tenga presente que no tiene autorización para leer el resto de este e-mail, copiarlo o derivarlo a cualquier otra persona que no sea aquella a quien está dirigido. Si recibe este mail por error, por favor, avise al remitente, luego de lo cual rogamos a usted destruya el mensaje original. No se puede responsabilizar de ningún modo a Deloitte & Co. S.A. ni a sus subsidiarias por cualquier consecuencia o daño que pueda resultar del apropiado y completo envío y recepción del contenido de este e-mail.
 
Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see http://www.deloitte.com/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. 
The information in this e-mail is confidential and intended solely for the person to whom it is addressed. If this message is not addressed to you, please be aware that you have no authorization to read the rest of this e-mail, to copy it or to furnish it to any person other than the addressee. Should you have received this e-mail by mistake, please bring this to the attention of the sender, after which you are kindly requested to destroy the original message. Deloitte & Co. S.A. and subsidiaries cannot be held responsible or liable in any way whatsoever for and/or in connection with any consequences and/or damage resulting from the proper and complete dispatch and receipt of the content of this e-mail.
