
Date: Sun, 15 Feb 2015 18:32:02 +0200
From: Henri Salo <henri@...v.fi>
To: oss-security@...ts.openwall.com
Subject: End of the m0n0wall project

http://m0n0.ch/wall/end_announcement.php

"""
Dear m0n0wall enthusiasts,

on this day 12 years ago, I have released the first version of m0n0wall to the
public. In theory, one could still run that version - pb1 it was called - on a
suitably old PC and use it to control the Internet access of a small LAN (not
that it would be recommended security-wise). However, the world keeps turning,
and while m0n0wall has made an effort to keep up, there are now better solutions
available and under active development.

Therefore, today I announce that the m0n0wall project has officially ended. No
development will be done anymore, and there will be no further releases.

The forums and the mailing list will be frozen at the end of this month. All the
contents of the website, repository, downloads, mailing list and forum will be
archived in a permanent location on the web so that they remain accessible
indefinitely to anyone who might be interested in them.

m0n0wall has served as the seed for several other well known open source
projects, like pfSense, FreeNAS and AskoziaPBX. The newest offspring, OPNsense
(https://opnsense.org), aims to continue the open source spirit of m0n0wall
while updating the technology to be ready for the future. In my view, it is the
perfect way to bring the m0n0wall idea into 2015, and I encourage all current
m0n0wall users to check out OPNsense and contribute if they can.

Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who has been
involved in the m0n0wall project and helped in some way or another - by
contributing code, documentation, answering questions on the mailing list or the
forum, donating or just spreading the word. It has been a great journey for me,
and I'm convinced that even now that it has come to an end, the m0n0wall spirit
will live on in the various projects it has spawned.

Manuel Kasper
15 February 2015
"""

-- 
Henri Salo
