
Date: Tue, 24 Jul 2007 12:22:08 -0700
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com,
	vulnwatch@...nwatch.org, vulndiscuss@...nwatch.org
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-042: Ipswitch IMail Server GetIMailHostEntry Memory Corruption
 Vulnerability

ZDI-07-042: Ipswitch IMail Server GetIMailHostEntry Memory Corruption
            Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-042.html
July 24, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-2795

-- Affected Vendor:
Ipswitch

-- Affected Products:
Ipswitch IMail
Ipswitch Collaboration Suite

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since July 24, 2007 by Digital Vaccine protection
filter ID 5224. For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Ipswitch IMail and ICS server.
Authentication is not required to exploit this vulnerability.

The specific flaw resides in IMailsec.dll while attempting to
authenticate users. The affected component is used by multiple services
that listen on a default installation. The authentication mechanism
copies user-supplied data into fixed length heap buffers using the
lstrcpyA() function. The unbounded copy operation can cause a memory
corruption resulting in an exploitable condition.


-- Vendor Response:
Ipswitch has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:

    http://www.ipswitch.com/support/imail/releases/im200621.asp

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2007.02.26 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.07.24 - Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint customers
2007.07.24 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by Sebastian Apelt
(webmaster@...zworld.org).

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.


CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
