
Date: Tue, 24 Jul 2007 12:18:38 -0700
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com,
	vulnwatch@...nwatch.org, vulndiscuss@...nwatch.org
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-041: Panda Software AdminSecure Agent Heap Overflow Vulnerability

ZDI-07-041: Panda Software AdminSecure Agent Heap Overflow Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-041.html
July 24, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-3026

-- Affected Vendor:
Panda Software

-- Affected Products:
Panda AdminSecure 2006

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since July 24, 2007 by Digital Vaccine protection
filter ID 4944. For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
affected installations of Panda AdminSecure. Authentication is not
required to exploit this vulnerability.

The specific flaw exists within the AdminSecure agent which binds by
default to TCP port 19226 or 19227. When processing traffic on the
listening port, the agent trusts a user-supplied length value for a
memory allocation. Specific size values can result in an integer
overflow and subsequently insufficient allocation size. This results in
a heap-based buffer overflow that can be leverage to execute arbitrary
code.

-- Vendor Response:
Panda Software has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More
details can be found at:

    http://www.pandasoftware.com/Download/tree/

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2006.11.15 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.07.24 - Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint customers
2007.07.24 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by Tenable Network Security.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.


CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments,
is being sent by 3Com for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential, proprietary and/or privileged information.
Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure and/or distribution by any 
recipient is prohibited.  If you are not the intended recipient, please
delete and/or destroy all copies of this message regardless of form and
any included attachments and notify 3Com immediately by contacting the
sender via reply e-mail or forwarding to 3Com at postmaster@...m.com. 
