
Date: Fri, 2 Mar 2007 09:56:56 -0800
From: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: zdi-disclosures@...m.com
Subject: ZDI-07-008: Apache Tomcat JK Web Server Connector Long URL Stack Overflow
 Vulnerability

ZDI-07-008: Apache Tomcat JK Web Server Connector Long URL Stack
            Overflow Vulnerability
http://www.zerodayinitiative.com/advisories/ZDI-07-008.html
March  2, 2007

-- CVE ID:
CVE-2007-0774

-- Affected Vendor:
Apache

-- Affected Products:
Tomcat JK Web Server Connector 1.2.19
Tomcat JK Web Server Connector 1.2.20 
Tomcat 4.1.34
Tomcat 5.5.20

-- TippingPoint(TM) IPS Customer Protection:
TippingPoint IPS customers have been protected against this
vulnerability since February 26, 2007 by Digital Vaccine protection
filter ID 5152. For further product information on the TippingPoint IPS:

    http://www.tippingpoint.com 

-- Vulnerability Details:
This vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code on
vulnerable installations of Apache Tomcat JK Web Server Connector.
Authentication is not required to exploit this vulnerability.

The specific flaw exists in the URI handler for the mod_jk.so library,
map_uri_to_worker(), defined in native/common/jk_uri_worker_map.c. When
parsing a long URL request, the URI worker map routine performs an
unsafe memory copy. This results in a stack overflow condition which
can be leveraged to execute arbitrary code.

-- Vendor Response:
Apache has issued an update to correct this vulnerability. More details
can be found at:

http://tomcat.apache.org/connectors-doc/miscellaneous/changelog.html

-- Disclosure Timeline:
2007.02.16 - Vulnerability reported to vendor
2007.02.26 - Digital Vaccine released to TippingPoint customers
2007.03.02 - Coordinated public release of advisory

-- Credit:
This vulnerability was discovered by an anonymous researcher.

-- About the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI):
Established by TippingPoint, a division of 3Com, The Zero Day Initiative
(ZDI) represents a best-of-breed model for rewarding security
researchers for responsibly disclosing discovered vulnerabilities.

Researchers interested in getting paid for their security research
through the ZDI can find more information and sign-up at:

    http://www.zerodayinitiative.com

The ZDI is unique in how the acquired vulnerability information is used.
3Com does not re-sell the vulnerability details or any exploit code.
Instead, upon notifying the affected product vendor, 3Com provides its
customers with zero day protection through its intrusion prevention
technology. Explicit details regarding the specifics of the
vulnerability are not exposed to any parties until an official vendor
patch is publicly available. Furthermore, with the altruistic aim of
helping to secure a broader user base, 3Com provides this vulnerability
information confidentially to security vendors (including competitors)
who have a vulnerability protection or mitigation product.
