
Date: Wed, 23 Jan 2013 10:09:44 +0000
From: Major Malfunction <majormal@...ate-radio.org>
To: dc4420@...420.org, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com,
  full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: DC4420 - London DEFCON - January 2013 meet. Tuesday 29th January
 2013

what it says on the tin!

speakers:

   Chris Sumner (Suggy) - Online Privacy Foundation

presenting:

   "Predicting Dark Triad Personality Traits from Twitter usage and a 
linguistic analysis of Tweets"

   This study explores the extent to which it is possible to determine 
anti-social personality traits based on Twitter use. This was performed 
by comparing the Dark Triad and Big Five personality traits of 2,927 
Twitter users with their profile attributes and use of language. 
Analysis shows that there are some statistically significant 
relationships between these variables. Through the use of crowd sourced 
machine learning algorithms, we show that machine learning provides 
useful prediction rates, but is imperfect in predicting an individual’s 
Dark Triad traits from Twitter activity. While predictive models may be 
unsuitable for predicting an individual’s personality, they may still be 
of practical importance when models are applied to large groups of 
people, such as gaining the ability to see whether anti-social traits 
are increasing or decreasing over a population.

and...

   yours truly Adam Laurie (Major Malfunction) & Zac Franken - Aperture 
Labs Ltd.

presenting:

   "Hardware Hacking The Easy Hard Way: Semi-Automating the process of 
decapping chips"

   Fancy getting your hands disolved^W dirty with boiling nitric acid? 
Ever wondered what's under the silicon in a silicon chip? And once 
you're under the hood, what next? This short talk will reveal our 
initial explorations into the caustic world of silicon deconstruction. 
There will be toolz...

Venue:

   Downstairs at The Phoenix: http://www.phoenixcavendishsquare.co.uk/

   be there by 19:30..

More:

   http://dc4420.org

see you next week!

cheers,
MM
-- 
"In DEFCON, we have no names..." errr... well, we do... but silly ones...
