
Date: Wed, 13 Feb 2008 13:30:06 +0800
From: "organiser@...can.org" <organiser@...can.org>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com, full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk,
	websecurity@...appsec.org, psrc@...urityfocus.com
Subject: SyScan'08 Call for Paper/Training

CALL FOR PAPERS/TRAINING

SyScan'08 Hong Kong will be held on May 29th and 30th at Langham Place.
SyScan'08 Singapore will be held on July 3rd and 4th at Novotel Clarke Quay.

CFP COMMITTEE
The Call for Papers committee for SyScan’08 comprises of the following 
personnel:

1. Thomas Lim – Organiser of SyScan and CEO of COSEINC
2. Dave Aitel – Founder and CTO of Immunitysec
3. Marc Maiffret – Ex-Founder and Chief Hacking Officer of eEye
4. Matthew “Shok” Conover – Symantec

The CFP committee will review all submissions and determine the final 
list of speakers for SyScan’08.

CONFERENCE TOPICS
The focus for SyScan’08 will include the following:

Operating Systems
• Vista
• Linux
Mobile Devices/Embedded systems
• SmartPhones
• PDAs
• Game Consoles
Web 2.0
• Web services
• PHP
• .Net
• Web applications
Networking/Telecommunication
• VoIP
• 3G/3.5G network
• IPv6
• WLAN/WiFi
• GPRS
Malware
BotNets
Virtualization

Additional topics for SyScan’08 Hong Kong:

Security Policy/Best Practices
Legislation
Industry Specifics –
• Finance
• Hotels


Any topics that will catch the attention of the CFP committee and/or the 
world.

TRAINING TOPICS
SyScan’08 training topics will focus on the following areas:

Web Applications
• .Net applications
• Java applications
Networks
• VoIP
• 3G/3.5G network
• IPv6
• WLAN/WiFi
• GPRS
Securing Windows/Linux Systems
Databases
Storage

PRIVILEGES
Speakers’ Privileges:
• Return economy class air-ticket for one person.
• 3 nights of accommodation.
• Breakfast, lunch and dinner during conference.
• After-conference party.
• A very healthy dose of alcohol and fun.
• S$500 cash for speakers with brand new presentations.

Trainers’ Privileges:
• 50% of net profit of class.
• 2 nights of accommodation (conference) (applicable for Singapore only).
• After-conference party.
• A very healthy dose of alcohol and fun.

Please note that the net profit for each class is determined by the 
difference between the total fee collected for each class and the total 
expenses incurred for each class. The expenses of each class would 
include the return economy air-ticket of the trainer, 3 nights of 
accommodation (training) and the rental of the training venue.


CFP SUBMISSION:
CFP submission must include the following information:

1) Brief biography including list of publications and papers published 
previously or training classes conducted previously.

2) Proposed presentation/training title, category, synopsis and description.

3) Contact Information (full name, alias, handler, e-mail, postal 
address, phone, fax, photo, country of origin, special dietary requirement).

4) Employment and/or affiliations information.

5) Any significant presentation and educational/training 
experience/background.

6) Why is your material different or innovative or significant or an 
important tutorial?

Please note that all speakers will be allocated 50 minutes of 
presentation time. Any speakers that require more time must inform the 
CFP committee during the CFP submission.

Training classes will be 2 full days. Please inform the CFP committee if 
your class is shorter or longer than 2 days during your CFP submission.

All submissions must be in English in either MS Office or PDF format. 
The more information you provide, the better the chance for selection. 
Please send submission to cfp@...can.org.



IMPORTANT DATES
Hong Kong
Final CFP Submission – 29th February 2008
Notification of Acceptance – 30th March 2008.
Final Submission for Accepted Presentation Material (Speakers) – 15th 
April 2008

Singapore
Final CFP Submission – 30th April 2008
Notification of Acceptance – 30th May 2008.
Final Submission for Accepted Presentation Material (Speakers) – 15th 
June 2008


OTHER INFORMATION
Please feel free to visit SyScan website to get a feel what this 
conference is all about – SHARE AND HAVE FUN!

By agreeing to speak at the SyScan'07 you are granting SyScan Pte. Ltd. 
the rights to reproduce, distribute, advertise and show your 
presentation including but not limited to http://www.syscan.org, printed 
and/or electronic advertisements, and all other mediums.

-- 
Thank you
Thomas Lim
Organiser
SyScan'07
www.syscan.org

