
Date: Mon, 25 Aug 2008 16:03:57 -0700
From: "David Hulton" <0x31337@...il.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: ToorCon X CFP Closing and Workshops and Seminars discounted until Friday!

CALL FOR PAPERS - Closing Friday!

Just wanted to let you know that we've done our first round of speaker
selection and wanted to remind everyone that we'll be closing the CFP
at the end of the week. All CFP information can be found at
<http://sandiego.toorcon.org/content/section/3/9/>. Here's a list of
some of the talks we've already picked:

Alexander Sotirov - How To Impress Girls With Browser Memory Protection Bypass
Andre Gironda - A little TLC for your SDL
Ben Feinstein - Loaded Dice: SSH Key Exchange & the OpenSSL PRNG Vuln
Bruno G Oliveira - Knowing and Enjoying the Cold Boot Attack
Chema Alonso & Jose Parada - RFD (Remote File Downloading) using Blind
 Techniques
Chris Gates - New School Information Gathering or Open Source Information
Christian Heinrich - Google Denied
David Byrne - Advanced Techniques in Automated Web Application Testing
Dennis Brown - Anatomy of the Asprox/Danmec Botnet
grutz - One XSS To Rule The Enterprise
Jason Ostrom - Targeted VoIP Eavesdropping: An Attack From Within
Jay Beale - Owning the Users with The Middler
Joseph McCray - Advanced SQL Injection
Joshua Brashars - Owning telephone entry systems (aka why you
 shouldn't sleep so well)
naxxatoe - The end of the internet (Self replicating malware on home routers)
Sergey Bratus, Cory Cornelius, Daniel Peebles, & Axel Hansen - Active
 Fingerprinting of 802.11 APs
Strom Carlson - Why your mother will never care about Linux (a rant)


WORKSHOPS - Discounted until Friday!

Also, this year we will be offering 2 2-day workshops before the
conference. One of which covers a more in-depth overview of what it
takes to become a world-class pen-tester, and one that teaches you the
behind the scenes in's and out's of running a secure corporate network
and being able to perform proper incident response when things don't
go as planned. These workshops are limited attendance and are filling
up fast. To try to get them sold out quickly we've discounted these
back to the original pre-registration price just for this week. Don't
miss out on hundreds of dollars of savings, register today!


SEMINARS - Discounted until Friday!

We are still finalizing the lineup for the Seminars but will be
releasing details in the next few days. Because of this delay we are
also discounting the seminars back down to the original
pre-registration price until Friday. Don't miss out on this event and
attending hands-on training in a small classroom with some of the best
security researchers in the world.


SPECIAL DATES

August 29th, 2008 - Call for papers closes
August 29th, 2008 - Workshops & seminars pre-registration increases
September 5th, 2008 - Speaker & sponsor selection finalized
September 12th, 2008 - Pre-registration closes
September 24th, 2008 - ToorCon training workshops start
September 26th, 2008 - ToorCon seminars & conference reception
September 27th, 2008 - ToorCon conference 50-minute talks
September 28th, 2008 - ToorCon conference 20-minute talks
