
Date: Tue, 09 Sep 2008 11:47:33 -0400
From: "Month of Bill O'Reilly Transcripts" <mobort@...hmail.com>
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: Month of Bill O'Reilly Transcripts

Forever supporting the philosophies of full-disclosure, it is our 
honor to humbly present to you the first episode of our latest 
project - the Month of Bill O'Reilly Transcripts.

Many special thanks to the Network Developer and Valdis Kletnieks 
for making this mailing list great.



BILL O'REILLY, HOST: In the "Impact" segment tonight: our first 
conversation with Senator Barack Obama. It's been a long time 
coming, as you know. Thursday afternoon, I met with the senator in 
York, Pennsylvania.

Now, we're going to play you the first part of the interview right 
now, and the rest of it, which is fairly extensive and provocative, 
will be seen next Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. Roll the tape.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

O'REILLY: Well, first of all, thanks for being a man of your word.

BARACK OBAMA, DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You bet.

O'REILLY: But I was worried there for awhile. It's been nine months 
since we last met in New Hampshire.

OBAMA: It took a little while. I've had a few things to do in 
between, but I appreciate you having me on the show.

O'REILLY: OK. Let's start with national security. Do you believe 
we're in the middle of a War on Terror?

OBAMA: Absolutely.

O'REILLY: Who's the enemy?

OBAMA: Al Qaeda, the Taliban, a whole host of networks that are 
bent on attacking America, who have a distorted ideology, who have 
perverted the faith of Islam, and so we have to go after them.

O'REILLY: Is Iran part of that component?

OBAMA: Iran is a major threat. Now, I don't think that there is a — 
the same — they are not part of the same network. You've got Shia, 
and you've got Sunni. We've got to have the ability to distinguish 
between these groups, because, for example, the war in Iraq is a 
good example, where I believe the administration lumped together 
Saddam Hussein, a terrible guy, with Al Qaeda, which had nothing to 
do with Saddam Hussein.

O'REILLY: We'll get to that.

OBAMA: And as a consequence, we ended up, I think, misdirecting our 
resources. So they're all part of various terrorist networks that 
we have to shut down and we have to destroy, but they may not all 
be part and parcel of the same ideology.

O'REILLY: But I still don't understand — and I'm asking this as an 
American as well as a journalist — how threatening you feel Iran 
is? Look, if Iran gets a nuclear weapon, OK, to me, they're going 
to give it to Hezbollah if they can develop the technology. Why 
not? And they'll say, "Well, we didn't have anything to do with it."

So therefore, the next president of the United States is going to 
have to make a decision about Iran, whether to stop them 
militarily, because I don't believe — if diplomacy works, fine, but 
you've got to have a Plan B, and a lot of people say, "Look, Barack 
Obama is not going to attack Iran."

OBAMA: Here's where you and I agree. It is unacceptable for Iran to 
possess a nuclear weapon. It would be a game changer, and I've said 
that repeatedly. I've also said I would never take a military 
option off the table.

O'REILLY: But would you prepare for one?

OBAMA: Well, listen...

O'REILLY: That's the question though, senator. Anybody can say 
option. Would you prepare for it?

OBAMA: Look, it is not appropriate for somebody who is one of two 
people who can be the president of the United States to start 
tipping their hand in terms of what their plans might be with 
respect to Iran. It's sufficient to say I would not take the 
military option off the table and that I will never hesitate to use 
our military force in order to protect the homeland and United 
States' interests.

But where I disagree with you is the notion that we've exhausted 
every other resource, because the fact of the matter is that, for 
six, seven years, during this administration, we weren't working as 
closely as we needed to do with the Europeans to create...

O'REILLY: Diplomacy might work. You might be able to sanction 
economically.

OBAMA: …sanctions.

O'REILLY: Maybe.

O'REILLY: But that's all hypothetical.

OBAMA: Everything is hypothetical, but the question is, are we 
trying to do what we need to do to ratchet up the pressure on them, 
to change their...

O'REILLY: OK. We'll assume you're going to ratchet everything you 
can ratchet. But I'm going to assume that Iran is going to say, 
"Blank you. We're going to do what we want." And I want a 
president, whether it's you or McCain, who says, "You ain't doing 
that."

All right. Let's go to Iraq. I think history will show it's the 
wrong battlefield, OK? And I think that you were perspicacious in 
your original assessment of the battlefield.

OBAMA: I appreciate that.

O'REILLY: I think you were desperately wrong on the surge, and I 
think you should admit it to the nation that now we have defeated 
the terrorists in Iraq, and the Al Qaeda came there after we 
invaded, as you know. We defeated them.

OBAMA: Right.

O'REILLY: If we didn't, they would have used it as a staging 
ground. We've also inhibited Iran from controlling the southern 
part of Iraq by the surge, which you did not support. So why won't 
you say, "I was right in the beginning. I was wrong about that"?

OBAMA: If you listen to what I've said, and I'll repeat it right 
here on this show, I think that there's no doubt that the violence 
is down. I believe that that is a testimony to the troops that were 
sent and General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker. I think that the 
surge has succeeded in ways that nobody anticipated, by the way, 
including President Bush and the other supporters. It has gone very 
well, partly because of the Anbar situation and the Sunni 
awakening, partly because of the Shia military. Look...

O'REILLY: But if it were up to you, there wouldn't have been a 
surge.

OBAMA: Look...

O'REILLY: No, no, no, no.

OBAMA: No, no, no...

O'REILLY: If it were up to you, there wouldn't have been a surge.

OBAMA: No, no, no.

O'REILLY: You and Joe Biden, no surge.

OBAMA: Hold on a second, Bill. If you look at the debate that was 
taking place, we had gone through five years of mismanagement of 
this war that I thought was disastrous. And the president wanted to 
double down and continue on an open-ended policy that did not 
create the kinds of pressure on the Iraqis to take responsibility 
and reconcile.

O'REILLY: But it worked. It worked. Come on.

OBAMA: Bill, what I've said is — I've already said it succeed 
beyond our wildest dreams.

O'REILLY: Why can't you say, "I was right in the beginning, and I 
was wrong about the surge"?

OBAMA: Because there's an underlying problem where what have we 
done. We have reduced the violence.

O'REILLY: Yes.

OBAMA: But the Iraqis still haven't taken responsibility, and we 
still don't have the kind of political reconciliation. We are still 
spending, Bill, $10 to $12 billion a month.

O'REILLY: And I hope if you're president, you can get them to kick 
in and pay us back.

OBAMA: They've got $79 billion.

O'REILLY: I'll go with you.

OBAMA: Let's go.

O'REILLY: We'll get some of that money back.

All right. Let's go to Afghanistan. Look, there's no winning the 
Taliban war unless Pakistan cracks down on the guys that are in 
Pakistan.

OBAMA: You and I agree completely. Right.

O'REILLY: We all know that.

OBAMA: Right.

O'REILLY: You gave a speech in Denver — good speech, by the way.

OBAMA: Thank you.

O'REILLY: But you bloviated about McCain not following him to the 
cave. You're not going to invade Pakistan, senator, if you're 
president. You're not going to send ground troops in there. You 
know it.

OBAMA: Here's the problem. John McCain loves to say, "I would 
follow them to the gates of Hell."

O'REILLY: But he's not going to invade either.

OBAMA: And the point is what we could have done...

O'REILLY: No, not could. Let's stay in now.

OBAMA: What we can do...

O'REILLY: Yes.

OBAMA: ...is stay focused on Afghanistan and put more pressure on 
the Pakistanis.

O'REILLY: Like what?

OBAMA: For example, we are providing them military aid without 
having enough strings attached. So they're using the military aid 
that we use to Pakistan, they're preparing for a war against India.

O'REILLY: So you're going to pull it out and let the Islamic 
fundamentalists take them over?

OBAMA: No, no, no, no. What we say is, look, we're going to provide 
them with additional military support targeted at terrorists, and 
we're going to help build their democracy and provide...

O'REILLY: We're doing that now. Negroponte's over there, and he's 
doing that.

OBAMA: That is not what we've been doing, Bill. We've wasted $10 
billion with Musharraf without holding him accountable for knocking 
out those safe havens.

O'REILLY: So you are going to — again, more diplomacy, and we need 
it, absolutely, trying to convince the Pakistan government to take 
a more aggressive approach. If you don't, we're going to pull…

OBAMA: And what I will do is, if we have bin Laden in our sights...

O'REILLY: Yes.

OBAMA: ...we target him, and we knock him out.

O'REILLY: But everybody would do that. I mean, that would be the 
biggest win Bush could have.

OBAMA: Of course.

O'REILLY: If you send ground troops in, all hell breaks loose.

OBAMA: We can't — we can't have — and nobody talked about some full-
blown invasion of Pakistan, but the simple point that I made was 
we've got to put more pressure on Pakistan to do what they need to 
do.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

O'REILLY: All right. Again, the rest of the interview will be seen 
on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday of next week, and it is lively.

--
Click to become a master chef, own a restaurant and make millions.
http://tagline.hushmail.com/fc/Ioyw6h4eAFcCOl4RFfzZ0SDucJpXpgy0wAwlHoqW8OC74tv5fM6JYU/

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/